




















Table of Contents




Chapter 1: Why Is Concentration Important?


Chapter 2: How people who have had ADHD can improve concentration


Chapter 3: Relaxation and focus start in the mind. If you are stressed, you cannot focus


Chapter 4: Nutrition


Chapter 5: Environment


Chapter 6: Can exercise help improve your concentration?


Chapter 7: Create a routine at work, and maintain it













Concentration Improvement: 
How To Improve Concentration, Stay Focused
 


By 
Mat Fox


“MF – Personal Growth”


 















Introduction


When looking for information about concentration, I came across a great example that I would like to share with you. With the scattered rays, the sun cannot burn anything. However, when you collect the rays with a lens and focus them in one direction, anything that stands in the way will be burned. C’mon, we have all tried to burn the skin off our pals backhand with a lens in school. 


Such is the power of concentration. Can you learn concentration? Of course you can. We can train you to concentrate your entire mind on one focus only. That is what this eBook is all about. 


Concentration is the deliberate effort of focusing the mind on one thought or one task only. Concentration can be used in many contexts. For example, when you concentrate your mind fully on the person you are conversing with, we can say that you are listening actively as opposed to when you just hear what someone is saying. 


Since everyone has got the ability to concentrate, for example, when reading a book or watching their favourite episode on television, it should be easy for you to learn how to concentrate at whatever task you are doing with little training, even if you find that your mind has acquired the habit of wandering off every now and then. 


You have seen people reading a book and they concentrate so hard such that they cannot hear even when you call their name. When you are fully concentrated on one idea, with all of your mind, it means that all your mind energy is focused on that task and only that task. Your senses (hear, touch, taste, smell and even sight) are stilled such that you cannot fathom anything that is beyond what you are doing. 


Thank you for downloading this eBook. I hope you regain your concentration and focus of the mind. I hope you become more productive at whatever you do and reap the benefits in good time. 


Good luck.
 


Table Of Content


Introduction


Chapter 1: 
Why Is Concentration Important?


Chapter 2: 
How people who have had ADHD can improve concentration


Chapter 3: 
Relaxation and focus start in the mind. If you are stressed, you cannot focus


Chapter 4: 
Nutrition


Chapter 5: 
Environment


Chapter 6: 
Can exercise help improve your concentration?


Chapter 7: 
Create a routine at work, and maintain it


Conclusion















Chapter 1: 
Why Is Concentration Important? 


I am the last minute man... unless there is a looming deadline; I always find it hard to focus my concentration on my tasks. But my boss doesn’t like that! And if you are reading this, I guess your boss too doesn’t like this scheme of things. 


The ability to concentrate tends to hit its peak at 5.00PM in the evening, that is, according to research. It is not a morning hours’ thing as many people assume. Thus, when some people say that they are evening people, they mean it! 


In Raja Yoga, concentration plays a big part in meditation. It is where you can be able to channel thoughts and energy to one task only. Concentration is paramount in all aspects of our lives be it at work, school, when driving or doing any other activity, it is important to concentrate to ensure success in any given task. 


Mind wandering happens to most people such that they cannot give a task a concentration span of more than 20 minutes. If this is you, don’t worry because after reading this eBook, you will know what you need to do to improve your concentration. 


If you have a short concentration span, it is best to train yourself to concentrate. That way, you will enjoy more inner peace, be able to focus your thoughts much more directly to complete tasks successfully and so on.  


It is ok to let your mind wander a little. It helps, especially if you are in a meeting that you do not like. However, as you will see here, in some tasks, you cannot let your mind wander too much. 


There are many reasons why you should nurture your concentration. First, it facilitates fast understanding of the content being taught, if you are a student. You must also be keen when you are reading various resource materials. To get that grade you have been dreaming of, it is necessary to concentrate in class. 


Sometimes, concentration is paramount for safety


When you are driving, you need to put your entire mind on the steering wheel and the road, failure to that could lead to an accident. Of all road carnage cases registered in the world, a good percentage of them are caused by lack of concentration by the motorist. 


Some motorists drive as they make calls, others fail to pay attention to the road lights. Another place you require concentration is at work. When working, you must always concentrate heavily if you are going to surpass the expectations of the boss and maybe even get that promotion!


Get your thoughts under control


Concentration enables you to control your thoughts. When you are paying attention, it is possible to regulate your mind. You just do not jump into conclusions without doing a careful analysis of a particular situation at work. Another reason why concentration is important is that it gives inner peace. It is easier to stay calm and composed when you are attentive. 


As you concentrate, your mind and body adopt a relaxed status. When your concentration is at the peak, you are more likely to take charge of annoying thoughts and embrace positive thinking.


Improves Creativity


Some tasks require creativity. Your best intuitions will arise when you are concentrating rather than when you are distracted. This is the right time to come up with an amazing business idea, an answer to something that has been bothering you for some time or even just re-evaluate your life.  


As you can see, concentration drives most of the aspects of your life. It ensures success in school and in the workplace as well as safety on the roads. It also gives you a peaceful mind as well as making you an intuitive person. 


 













Chapter 2: 
How people who have had ADHD can improve concentration 


Are you less attentive, hyperactive and impulsive? You may be suffering from Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). It affects most children and about 60% of its victims transit to adulthood with it. While only a few of patients with this condition are diagnosed and treated with it, they exhibit certain symptoms. 


People with ADHD find it hard to concentrate


If you have ADHD, it is better to let people know so that they do not misjudge you if you cannot be able to pay attention to a task for a given span of time. From the name of the condition (attention deficit) victims can barely hold their attention to a task for a given time. 


To begin with, a person with ADHD has a problem remembering things, following easy directions, concentrating at work or completing scheduled tasks within the set time. They also tend to be disorganized. If the aforementioned problems are not addressed, they can lead to other emotional, behavioural, employment or academic issues. 


Some of the characteristic problems that adults with this condition exhibit include anxiety, depression, serious forgetfulness, mood swings, uncontrollable anger, relationship problems, substance abuse and other related issues. These behaviours are dynamic and they can show throughout the patient’s life. 


Do not despair yet, since it is possible to overcome ADHD. It is a condition like any other and you should not be punished for it. Let people know that your mind is bound to wander some time. This way, they know what to expect from you. 


One good way to do be successful at work when you have ADHD is to work as much as you can when you can focus your mind such that when you start losing focus, you will have done quite a lot for that given time. 


Treat the symptoms of ADHD


How do you overcome ADHD? The best way to address this condition is by treating its symptoms. For instance, behavioural and cognitive therapy can help cure anxiety. 


Being an ADHD patient and employee can put you in problems with your seniors. Fortunately, there are ways you can use to manage your condition. 


Avoid all tasks that may require intense concentration or precision. For example, activities such as auditing may not be good for you. While avoidance can be an option, it is never a solution. It is important that you admit you have the condition. 


Let others know you have ADHD


Let your seniors know that you have ADHD. They will be more considerate when they are allocating duties. They will also help you to enhance your self-esteem.  


Adults with ADHD tend to be very busy at the office but by the end of the day, they may not achieve much. Remember; the management want results, thus it would be best if you give them just that. 


To this effect, always ensure to measure your progress at work to know where you need to improve. Most importantly, do not be too hard on yourself. You need your sanity to heal. Be composed and face the problem head on.  















Chapter 3:
Relaxation and focus start in the mind. If you are stressed, you cannot focus   
  
         


It is a hard life. It is hard to concentrate! However, your boss will not be buying any of that. Thus, you had better find a way to refocus your mind energy to the task at hand. Is this hard? Of course not, given the knowledge that we are all able to focus intensely on things that we like. Why don’t you start liking what you do with all your heart? Good place to start, no?


Being excessively stressed can ruin your performance at work. Besides, excess stress can take a toll on your overall body health such that your productivity goes down. 


Every employee worries about job security – Just don’t overdo it!


It is natural to get workplace stress. Some of the worries that could be restraining your happiness include not knowing whether you will be laid off. Most employees also worry about impending salary cuts, as they look at the global economy trends. It is well understood that workplace stress increases when the economy is bad and is almost inevitable, it is essential for you to learn some coping strategies.


When you have something bothering your mind, you are likely to affect your colleagues too. For instance, when you have a group assignment, your full cooperation is needed. If you are stressed, it is hard to give the tasks you are allocated the attention they require.


What happens is that you do not deliver satisfactorily. As a result, your team fails and the blame is laid on you. This can lead to restrained relationship with your team members. You may end up being more stressed. As you can see, stress can ruin your career as well as relationships. Luckily, stress can be overcome, if only you invest enough effort in the endeavour. 


What is your stress level?


Ok, so you are stressed. So are we! How much? First, you need to assess your stress levels. You do this by evaluating the symptoms. Lack of interest in work, anxiety, unexplained fatigue, under or oversleeping, concentration problems and social withdrawal are some of the symptoms of stress. 


Once you have established that you are suffering from stress, start re-evaluating your life. Look at the physical and emotional health well, during this time. Once your inner self is at peace, you are in a good position to manage work-related stress.


Cutting on alcohol, getting adequate sleep and eating healthy foods are some of the things you can do to reduce stress. Sleep, for example, is very important since it calms the nerves. Eating healthily on the other hand prevents your body from being lethargic. Regular exercise can do some magic too. 


When you have really worked on yourself, you can manage stress at work to be productive enough to warrant the boss’s appraisal as well as to crunch that promotion that you have been so eagerly waiting for.


This is only achievable if you have a sober mind. The best way to prevent your work from overwhelming you is by prioritizing and organizing your tasks. When there is too much to do within a short time, you will use most of the time thinking about the big job at hand.


Breaking work into small manageable tasks


1.
   
If you break down your assignment into manageable tasks, you will be able to accomplish more over a short time. Always make a plan of the activities that you have for each day. Put all your focus on them and the results will be pleasing. 


2.
   
If your workplace is still stressful, you can decide to succeed inside the havoc. How can you do this? By practising emotional intelligence, you can choose to remain positive always notwithstanding the situation. 


3.
   
Last but not the least, to overcome stress you must lay off self-defeating habits. You should stop trying to control things over which you have no capacity to deal with. 


4.
   
You must avoid getting to work late because that heightens anxiety. 


5.
                        
Deviate from negative thinking and stop being a perfectionist, these two fuel workplace stress. Stress at work is a serious problem to both the employer and the employees. For the former, they undergo losses and the employees stagnate in their careers. 















Chapter 4:
Nutrition 


What does food have to do with improving concentration? As they say, garbage in- garbage out. If you don’t eat healthily, we will soon know from the extra layers of skin on your body. 


When your body is not healthy, your mind is not healthy too. When your mind is not healthy, it will be hard to concentrate, to focus all your energy on any given task. 


Healthy eating is not only good for the body but for the mind too. With proper mind health, you will be able to do more at work. Concentration and focus start in the mind. What this means is that you need a healthy brain to perform exceptionally. 


Certain minerals and vitamins need to be kept at optimum levels in the brain. If not, their deficiency can lead to slackened performance. In extreme cases, such nutritional deficiencies can lead to mental conditions, which again can slow the functionality of your mind. 


What foods can you eat to ensure that your brain performs exemplarily? Below are some foods that are known to energize and stimulate the brain:


Omega 3 fatty acids


Foods with omega 3 fatty acids help in improving your focus, by increasing the cognitive function of the brain. Some good sources of these essential fats include sardines, mackerel, trout and salmon, walnuts and flax seed.  


High-oxidant foods


Foods packed with antioxidants help to boost brain performance. Fruits such as tomatoes and berries that contain vitamins A, E, C and vegetables like broccoli, cabbage and cauliflower are good for your brain health. Antioxidants play a great role in facilitating proper blood circulation to the brain, taking more oxygen to the brain.


Caffeinated beverages


Caffeine is good for your brain, if taken in moderation. The best sources of this substance are dark chocolate and green tea. These two contain essential polyphenols, which boosts the performance of the brain and prevent cell death. While caffeine helps to energize your brain thus enhancing your focus, it can do exactly the opposite of that when used excessively. 


Foods high in dopamine – had your banana yet?


Ripe bananas preferably those with brown spots, sunflower seeds, contain high concentration of dopamine. This chemical helps to improve your concentration. 


Vitamins B12 and B6


These two vitamins help to enhance your memory and concentration. They enhance the cognitive function of the brain. In addition, they prevent illnesses such as dementia and alzheimer's, by shielding the brain from nerve damage, from a chemical homocysteine, which stimulates the development of the two conditions. Foods such as meat, eggs, whole grains, fish and nuts contain high levels of B6. On the other hand, fish, meat, eggs, seaweed and dairy products contain lots of vitamin B12. 


Fibre-rich foods


Other foods that can help you concentrate more at work and improve your performance are those rich in fibre. Vegetables, fruits, nuts and seeds should be included in your diet every day. All these foods are known to enhance concentration. This can be attributed to their roles in regulating blood sugar levels. Brain cells and other body cells receive adequate energy for optimum functioning. 


If you want to boost your concentration and be more vibrant at work, you need to eat right. Your diet should have a lot of healthy fats, vitamins such as B12, B6, A, C and E, dopamine and foods rich in fibre. They will keep your brain performance at the peak.













Chapter 5: 
Environmen
t
 


For you to achieve a laser-like concentration, it is critical that you evaluate your workplace environment. What surrounds you can go a long way into affecting your mood and focus. For instance, if your office is surrounded by noisy machines or is just near the hallway, you are likely to be distracted by the noise. 


Most workers spend half of their day dealing with distractions and they use more time trying to recapture focus. This can be a detrimental to the business and to the development of their careers.


It is important to remove such distractions. You need to understand their roots first, after which you can block them. What are some of the sources of your workplace distractions? Let us look at some of the notorious interruptions that rob you of your concentration at the office.


Noisy machines


If the office nearby houses the registry department where there is regular running of paper machines, chances are that the noise will infiltrate into your office too. You are likely to find yourself losing focus for the better part of the day. It might be in your power to upgrade the machines but you can raise your concerns to the management. Try to show them how the noise is not only affecting you but also the productivity of the company. 


Getting rid of clutter


Nothing makes a worker to lose morale than a cluttered office. Thus, you will need to detoxify your desk. You can use a chest of office drawers to enable you to organize your files just right. Today, you can find office cupboards that come with different compartments for different files. 


For the documents that you will need regularly, it is best to keep them in a drawer within your reach. This way, you will avoid overloading your desk with material that you do not need. On the other hand, for files that you will need frequently, be sure to organize them at one corner of your desk immaculately. By organising your desk, you eliminate distractions and enhance focus.


Still on the office setting, make sure you have a dustbin to throw all your waste. Putting crumpled papers on the floor will only create a greater mess, which will be reflected in your performance. In addition, keep the office surfaces clean and fresh. Lastly, have an office arrangement that makes you feel good.  


Loud colleagues


We all operate differently. Some people will work in places where there are high levels of noise but show nothing. For some, even the slightest noise is enough to make them lose focus. If you work in an open office, you can identify with this situation. 


Some colleagues hardly shut their mouths the whole day. If moving is not an option; you must find a way to block their distractions. You could carry your headphones to the office and work as you listen to music. 


Hefty interruptions


If you are the manager, more often than not, there will be either client or an employee at the door knocking. This can really ruin your concentration. Nevertheless, there is a way you can avoid such as a mess. You can have a plan where people see you on appointment, lest it is an emergency. This way, you have enough time to concentrate on other managerial matters.


What is the way out of workplace interruptions and distractions?


The best way to increase your concentration in an environment that is limiting your focus is by encapsulating yourself from the real world. People around you may not understand why you badly need a quiet place. Hence, do not expect them to be considerate, especially in an open office plan, you may be forced to listen to small talk from your colleagues.  Others will just come to your cubicle without notice, putting your performance in jeopardy. 


If you are in a managerial position, it is easier to shield yourself from interruptions. For example, most managers have a secretary who sieves the most to the less important matters. On the contrary, many employees do not enjoy the luxury of a private office. In this case, you might need to come up with coping strategies. 


Where you are fortunate to own an office, always keep the door closed. This will help to keep out the noise and busy body colleagues. If need be, you can also stick a “Do Not Disturb” sign on the door. 


Another way to avoid disturbances is to find a way to signal your co-workers when you are busy.  You could also use your earphones to keep the noise out. 


With the proliferation of electronics and other internet technologies, most people cannot avoid these distractions. Phones, emails and other handhelds are some of the things ailing productivity at workplaces. 


If you feel that you need to answer a call when you are in the middle of something, your phone has stopped being a tool but a domineering boss. Learn when to reject and when to engage.


If you want to focus on something, turn off your phone. Stop the social media alerts too when you are on an assignment. While some workers have to be on phone because of the nature of their job, if is not a matter of life and death, don’t pick the call instantly. You can set some time aside to read and respond to messages and answer calls. 


The above cues for reducing and eliminating distractions at the workplace can help you boost your concentration and your productivity. However, you need social interactions too to be successful at work. Hence, use your breaks to interact with your colleagues. 















Chapter 6:
Can exercise help improve your concentration
?
 


Oh, yes! Regular exercise can help you improve your concentration. Experts say that exercise produces some feel-good hormones that help enhance the brain performance and cognition. This is in turn will increase concentration.


Thus, it is important to exercise regularly to enhance your performance at work. For people with ADHD, exercise is one of the solutions to their problem. While most people associate exercise with weight loss, it can do magic to your brain functionality, if only you can embrace it. 


How does exercise improve concentration? First, it improves mental performance, by stimulating the release of some essential chemicals. It also enhances your overall health, making you fit for any task that you are given. Feeling fatigued, anxious or stressed can transfer stress to your work. By establishing a regular exercise schedule, you are able to combat most of the work-stress related symptoms.


For people who are older, a regular workout regimen can really boost your memory and focus. It helps to energize the brain, thus preventing the breakdown of the brain tissues. Exercising regularly can also protect you from suffering high blood pressure and other illnesses, which lead to temporary memory loss.       


What are some of the exercises that are best for your concentration?


For you to boost your focus, it is important to include both relaxation and cardio techniques into your workout plan. Cardio workouts facilitate adequate supply of nutrients and oxygen to your brain. On the other hand, relaxation exercises enable the mind to restore successfully during the resting period. 


Here are some of the beneficial exercises that you could do without registering in a gym:


Walking


Most people are embracing this exercise, and they do it in the wee hours of the morning. You too can form a routine of brisk walking in the morning around your neighbourhood. This is something you can do before you prepare to go to work. By the time you reach your office desk, you will be energetic enough to face the day. Preferably, you should walk for approximately 35 minutes. It helps your mind to weigh down and allow more oxygen in. 


Yoga


There is big hype about the benefits of yoga on the performance of the mind. Exercise helps to improve your concentration. You can disentangle from the outside world for a moment, eventually releasing your anxiety. Pranayama and Dharana are some of the yoga types that give optimum benefits for concentration. You can buy tutorial videos to help you do yoga at home.


Tai chi


This is a form of martial art from China. It enables your mind to optimize on energy from other parts of your body where it is not used. For this, you will need to enrol in a gym where they offer the exercise or you can simply buy an instructional video and do it from the comfort of your home. 


Whether you are a victim of ADHD or you are simply feeling distracted lately, regular exercise can help you revive your brain performance. Concentration starts in the mind. If your mind is disturbed, it flows to your work and that can influence your productivity negatively.















Chapter 7:
Create a routine at work, and maintain it 


Sometimes we have so much to do such that we are overwhelmed. At this time, one is likely to spend more time thinking about their lengthy to-do list rather than working on the tasks themselves. 


You may have experienced this at some point in your career. It might feel as if it will not be over. However, it is possible to do as much as you can handle with a good plan. Organizing your work such that you focus on a certain task at a time is very important. 


Here are some steps to assist you in organizing your work and enhancing your concentration:


Create a list of weekly and daily activities to do       


Understand that you cannot accomplish everything. Hence, sober up and sort out your tasks. Get to know the activities that need to be done every day. In addition, take note of other tasks with a weekly deadline. A bulleted list will be perfect and easy to read.


Prioritize on the tasks


Decide on the activities that are important. This does not mean that some tasks are not important. However, there are those activities that are needed fast, may be a report for your boss. It can also be an appointment with a client. Put some marks on the prioritised tasks. 


Spread out the tasks over the week or month


Depending on the urgency and importance of the tasks that you are allocated, you can schedule them throughout the month. It is also essential for you to schedule some time too for the times when you are given an unexpected task. This way you do not get overwhelmed or lose focus when the manager allocates an urgent assignment to you. 


Break down the involving tasks to bits


Assignments that take a long time and lots of effort to complete can make you anxious. However, you can break them down into small manageable tasks. Before, you know it; the entire project will be over. Since you are focusing more on a smaller task, you can narrow your margin of error. You can also have breaks in between the activities to relax your mind. 


Do not wander


Now that you know what you need to prioritise on, ensure you stay focused. It would be best if you handle one thing at a time. Do not start on another project if the previous one is still pending. Otherwise, you will fail in both. Simply focus on one task and give it your best. 


Evaluate your progress


It is important to assess whether you are improving your concentration. You can do that by reviewing your accomplishments. How many tasks have you been able to complete daily? What are your weekly achievements? These are some of the standards you can use to review your progress. 


Be flexible


It might not go the way you planned by the time you close your day. If this happens, do not beat yourself too much about it. Simply push the task to the next day.


Concentration at work is very important. By making a plan for your work, you can block the factors that prevent you from staying focused. Do not just create the plan but also be determined to follow it religiously. 















Conclusion


Now that you know a few things that you can do to enhance your concentration and focus, you can share this link with other people that you know who need this kind of information. The good thing is that you are not too late to start working on your concentration. Once you implement the information in this eBook, you will start seeing more productivity at work. 


Do you know someone with ADHD/ or lack of concentration ? Maybe this eBook can help them. They will know how to improve their concentration at the workplace and deliver more when their mind focus is not wandering so that by the time they start losing focus, they will have done more then enough for the day. 


Please share the link for this eBook with other people. We hope the information here has helped you enhance your concentration and focus at work. 


We'd like to say a quick 
Thank You
 for downloading the book and reading it all the way though to the end. I hope this short and simple book gives you some useful knowledge. Before you go can you take a moment and leave a honest review.


Click Here To Leave A Review


 


“Be sure to have a look at my other self-improvenment books by simply clicking the link below”


 


Mat's Author's Page & Other Books


 


 


 


 


 





