






















 
DARK PSYCHOLOGY
 


 
 
 


 
9 IN 1
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
How to Have Full Control of Your Life.
 


 
Analyze Body Language to Avoid Toxic People and Defend Yourself from Manipulation, Persuasion, NLP, Narcissistic Abuse, Codependency
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Jonathan Mind - Alejandro Mendoza
 


 
Melanie Blackwood - Shannon MacBride
 


 















 


 
 
 


 
Text Copyright © 
All rights reserved. No part of this guide may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing from the publisher except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles or reviews.
 


 
Legal & Disclaimer
 


 
The information contained in this book and its contents is not designed to replace or take the place of any form of medical or professional advice; and is not meant to replace the need for independent medical, financial, legal or other professional advice or services, as may be required. The content and information in this book have been provided for educational and entertainment purposes only.
 


 
The content and information contained in this book have been compiled from sources deemed reliable, and it is accurate to the best of the Author's knowledge, information and belief. However, the Author cannot guarantee its accuracy and validity and cannot be held liable for any errors and/or omissions. Further, changes are periodically made to this book as and when needed. Where appropriate and/or necessary, you must consult a professional (including but not limited to your doctor, attorney, financial advisor or such other professional advisor) before using any of the suggested remedies, techniques, or information in this book.
 


 
Upon using the contents and information contained in this book, you agree to hold harmless the Author from and against any damages, costs, and expenses, including any legal fees potentially resulting from the application of any of the information provided by this book. This disclaimer applies to any loss, damages or injury caused by the use and application, whether directly or indirectly, of any advice or information presented, whether for breach of contract, tort, negligence, personal injury, criminal intent, or under any other cause of action.
 


 
You agree to accept all risks of using the information presented inside this book.
 


 
You agree that by continuing to read this book, where appropriate and/or necessary, you shall consult a professional (including but not limited to your doctor, attorney, or financial advisor or such other advisor as needed) before using any of the suggested remedies, techniques, or information in this book.
 


 















 


 
Table of Contents
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 1
:
 
MANIPULATION AND DARK PSYCHOLOGY
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1: What is Dark Psychology?
 


 
Chapter 2: The 4 Dark Psychology Traits
 


 
Chapter 3: Psychological Manipulation Techniques
 


 
Chapter 4: Behavioral and Character Traits of the Manipulators
 


 
Chapter 5: What is Covert Emotional Manipulation?
 


 
Chapter 6: What are the Manipulators Trying to do?
 


 
Chapter 7: Behavioral Traits of Favorite Victims of Manipulators
 


 
Chapter 8: What is Persuasion?
 


 
Chapter 9: Methods of Persuasion
 


 
Chapter 10: Brainwashing
 


 
Chapter 11: Hypnosis
 


 
Chapter 12: Dark NLP
 


 
Chapter 13: Body Language
 


 
Chapter 14: Deception
 


 
Chapter 15: The Role of Defense
 


 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 2
:
 
MANIPULATION AND BODY LANGUAGE
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1
: 
What’s Dark Psychology?
 


 
Chapter 2:
 
The Dark Psychology Traits
 


 
Chapter 3:
 
What Are the Psychological Manipulation Techniques?
 


 
Chapter 4: 
Signs That You're Being Manipulated
 


 
Chapter 5: 
Deciphering Personality Types
 


 
Chapter 6: 
Understanding Body Language
 


 
Chapter 7: 
The Secrets of Body
 


 
Chapter 8: 
The Five C's of Body Language
 


 
Chapter 9: 
How to Interpret the Verbal Communication?
 


 
Chapter 10: 
What Is Neurolinguistic Programming?
 


 
Chapter 11: 
Is NLP Effective?
 


 
Chapter 12: 
The Pillars Of NLP
 


 
Chapter 13: 
The Art of Persuasion
 


 
Chapter 14: 
The Secrets To Read People
 


 
Chapter 15: 
Strategies to Increase Self-Esteem Through NLP
 


 
Conclusion
:
 
5 Clues to Reveal True Intentions
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 3
:
 
MANIPULATION AND NLP TECHNIQUES
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1: 
Understanding Dark Psychology
 


 
Chapter 2: 
What Is NLP
 


 
Chapter 3: 
Psychological Manipulation Techniques
 


 
Chapter 4: 
Covert Emotional Manipulation
 


 
Chapter 5: 
Understanding Body Language
 


 
Chapter 6: 
The Five C's of Body Language
 


 
Chapter 7: 
Verbal Communication and Nonverbal Communication
 


 
Chapter 8: 
How To Analyze People
 


 
Chapter 9: Brainwashing
 


 
Chapter 10: 
Understanding Persuasion
 


 
Chapter 11: 
              
How to Differentiate Between Persuasion and Manipulation
 


 
Chapter 12: What Is Deception
 


 
Chapter 13: 
The Role of Defence in 9 Steps
 


 
CONCLUSION
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 4
:
 
DARK NLP
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1: The World of Dark Psychology
 


 
Chapter 2: Neuro-Linguistic Programming
 


 
Chapter 3: What is Persuasion?
 


 
Chapter 4: Methods of Persuasion
 


 
Chapter 5: Brainwashing and Other Techniques
 


 
Chapter 6: Hypnosis
 


 
Chapter 7: How to Analyze People
 


 
Chapter 8: Communication
 


 
Chapter 9: Deception
 


 
Chapter 10: How to Spot Manipulation
 


 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 5
:
 
PERSUASION AND DARK PSYCHOLOGY
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1: What Is Persuasion
 


 
Chapter 2: Methods Of Persuasion
 


 
Chapter 3: Brainwashing
 


 
Chapter 4: Hypnosis
 


 
Chapter 5: Dark Nlp
 


 
Chapter 6: Body Language
 


 
Chapter 7: Covert Emotional Manipulation
 


 
Chapter 8: Favourite Victims Of Manipulators
 


 
Chapter 9: Deception
 


 
Chapter 10: Mind Games
 


 
Chapter 11: How To Defend Yourself From Persuasion And Manipulation
 


 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 6
:
 
NARCISSISTIC ABUSE
 


 
Chapter 1: The Real Narcissist
 


 
Chapter 2: The Language Of Narcissists
 


 
Chapter 3: Defining The Emotional Disorder
 


 
Chapter 4: The Origins Of Emotional Manipulation Disorders
 


 
Chapter 5: The Favorite Victims Of Narcissist
 


 
Chapter 6: Emotional And Psychological Reason Why Victims Stay
 


 
Chapter 7: The Abuse Cycle
 


 
Chapter 8: How To Raise Your Self-Esteem
 


 
Chapter 9: The Healing
 


 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 7
:
 
NARCISSISM AND CODEPENDENCY
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1: What is Narcissism?
 


 
Chapter 2: Social and Personality Models of Narcissism
 


 
Chapter 3: Types of Narcissistic Personalities
 


 
Chapter 4: Narcissism in Family and Relationships
 


 
Chapter 5: Define Codependency
 


 
Chapter 6: The Nature of Codependency
 


 
Chapter 7: Discovering my Attachment Style
 


 
Chapter 8: The Human Magnet Syndrome
 


 
Chapter 9: How to Avoid Codependent Relationships
 


 
Chapter 10: Healing from Codependency
 


 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 8
:
 
NARCISSIST AND EMPATH
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1: What is an Empath?
 


 
Chapter 2: What is a Narcissist?
 


 
Chapter 3: Are You an Empath?
 


 
Chapter 4: The Narcissistic Relationship
 


 
Chapter 5: The Effects of Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Chapter 6: The Codependent Relationship
 


 
Chapter 7: The Energy Vampire
 


 
Chapter 8: Narcissistic Manipulation
 


 
Chapter 9: Fighting Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Chapter 10: Protecting Yourself from Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Chapter 11: Steps of Empathic Self-Healing
 


 
Frequently Asked Questions
 


 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
BOOK 9
:
 
HEALING AFTER NARCISSISTIC ABUSE
 


 
Introduction
 


 
Chapter 1: The Real Narcissist
 


 
Chapter 2: Narcissistic Personality Traits
 


 
Chapter 3: Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Chapter 4: The Language of Narcissists
 


 
Chapter 5: Emotional Manipulation Disorders
 


 
Chapter 6: The Victims of the Narcissist
 


 
Chapter 7: The Cycle of Abuse
 


 
Chapter 8: The Tools of Narcissistic Brainwashing
 


 
Chapter 9: Codependency in the Narcissistic Relationship
 


 
Chapter 10: Signs That You Are in a Relationship with a Narcissist
 


 
Chapter 11: How to Raise Your Self-Esteem
 


 
Chapter 12: The Steps of Healing
 


 
Frequently Asked Questions
 


 
Conclusion
 


 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 















 


 
BOOK 1
 


 
Manipulation and Dark Psychology
 


 
 
 


 















 


 
Introduction
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Congratulations on downloading
 Manipulation and Dark Psychology: How to Learn Speed Reading People, Spot Covert Emotional Manipulation, Detect Deception, and Defend Yourself from Persuasion Techniques and Toxic People
, and thanks for doing so. 
 


 
 
 


 
The following chapters will discuss the traits of malicious and manipulative people and teach you how to identify the techniques they use to take advantage of others. We will look at the concept of dark psychology and discuss dark psychological traits such as narcissism, psychopathy, sadism, and Machiavellianism so that you understand the driving forces behind manipulative people. 
 


 
 
 


 
The book will also list and dissect all the manipulation techniques while using simple anecdotes to help you understand how those techniques work, and how someone might use them against you. The book also covers the behavioral tendencies and character traits of manipulators so that you can identify malicious people when they cross your path. It also covers covert and subtle methods that people in your life might use to influence you without your knowledge. 
 


 
 
 


 
The book takes a dive into the psyche of the manipulators to help you understand exactly why they do what they do, and what end goals they have in mind when they target you. It also discusses the vulnerabilities that manipulative people look for in the people they choose to victimize. 
 


 
 
 


 
Towards the end, the book teaches tried and tested methods that people can use to defend against manipulation and exploitation. You will discover why your self-esteem is your best defense when dealing with psychological manipulators, and what you can do to raise your self-esteem and regain control over your life. 
 


 
 
 


 
There are lots of books on dark psychology and manipulation in the market right now, so thank you very much for choosing this one! Every effort was made to ensure that this book is filled with useful insights and practical information that can help protect you against manipulators, so please enjoy! 
 

















 
 


 
Chapter 1: What is Dark Psychology?
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
There are many different ways to define dark psychology, but in this book, we will go with the simplest one. Dark Psychology is the art and science of manipulation and mind control. Psychology, in general, seeks to study and understand human behavior. It is focused on our thoughts, actions, and the way we interact with each other. Dark psychology, however, just focuses on the kinds of thoughts and actions that are predatory in nature. Dark psychology examines the tactics used by malicious people to motivate, persuade, manipulate, or coerce others into acting in ways that are beneficial to themselves, and potentially detrimental to the other person. 
 


 
 
 


 
Dark psychology can be seen as the study of the human condition, in relation to the psychological nature of the different kinds of people who prey on others. The fact is that every single human being has the potential to victimize other people or other living creatures. However, due to social norms, the human conscience, and other factors, most humans tend to restrain their dark urges and to keep themselves from acting on every impulse that they have. However, there is a small percentage of the population that is unable to keep their dark urges in check, and they harm others in seemingly unimaginable ways. 
 


 
 
 


 
The point of dark psychology, as a subject, is to try to understand those thoughts, feelings, and perceptions that cause people to behave in predatory ways towards each other. Experts in dark psychology work under the assumption that the vast majority of human predatory actions are purposeful. In other words, most of the people who prey on others (99.99%) do it for specific reasons, while the remaining people (0.01%) do it for no reason at all. 
 


 
 
 


 
The assumption is that when people do evil things, they have specific motivations, some of which may even be completely rational from their point of view. People do bad things with specific goals in mind and specific rationales for their actions, and only a tiny fraction of the population brutally victimizes others without a purpose that can be reasonably explained by either evolutionary science or some form of religious dogma.
 


 
 
 


 
You have heard many times that everyone has a dark side. All cultures and belief systems acknowledge this dark side to some extent. Our society refers to it as “evil” while some cultures and religions have gone so far as to create mythical beings to whom they attribute that evil (the devil, Satan, demons, etc.). Experts in dark psychology posit that there as some among us who commit the worst kinds of evil, for purposes that are unknown. While most people may do evil things to gain power, money, retribution, or for sexual purposes, there are those who do evil things because that’s just who they are. They commit acts of horror for absolutely no reason. In other words, their ends don’t justify their means; they cause harm for its own sake. 
 


 
 
 


 
Dark psychology is rooted in 4 dark personality traits. These traits are; narcissism, Machiavellianism, psychopathy, and sadism. People with such traits tend to act in ways that are pointlessly harmful to others.
 


 
 
 


 
Let’s look at examples of how dark psychological aspects are manifested in the real world: 
 


 
 
 


 
“I-Predators” are people or groups of people who use modern technology to prey on others, either directly or indirectly. As we have mentioned, everyone has a dark side, and the anonymity that the internet offers has a way of bringing out that dark side in many of us. The result is that there is an ever-increasing number of people who are looking to exploit, coerce, stalk, and victimize others online, and through the use of other technological tools. 
 


 
 
 


 
These predators seem to be driven by deviant fantasies, which they feel free to play out because the internet makes it possible for them to lurk in the shadows. In other words, they are not restricted by the usual social norms that keep people from revealing their dark side because no one online knows their real identities. These people tend to have all sort of prejudices and preconceptions, which they go to great lengths to impose on others. 
 


 
 
 


 
I-Predators come in different shapes and sizes; there are stalkers, harassers, criminals, perverts, terrorist, bullies, conmen, and even trolls. No matter what kind of predators they are, they all tend to have a self-awareness of the fact that they are harming others. They also tend to go out of their way to cover their tracks, which means they don’t want the people who know them in real life to discover that they have a dark side. 
 


 
 
 


 
Arson is also a different manifestation of dark psychology. Arsonists are people who tend to be obsessively preoccupied with setting fires. Some of them become serial arsonists; they set fires regularly and in a manner that is highly ritualistic. 
 


 
 
 


 
Necrophiliacs are people who are sexually interested in the dead, while serial killers are people who murder three or more people over a prolonged period of time. These are some of the most extreme manifestations of dark psychology, and although they are rare (as a function of the overall population), they are still worth discussing if you want to understand dark psychology. Experts in the field of criminal psychology believe that serial killers and other evildoers are motivated by the pursuit of psychological gratification, which they can only achieve by performing those brutal acts. 
 


 
 
 


 
To the people who perform the worst kinds of evil acts, those acts are like drugs to them; they are addictive in a way. For instance, when a serial killer gets some form of gratification from murdering someone, he may feel the urge to do it again in order to experience the same gratification. 
 


 
 
 


 
For the purposes of this book, we won’t be discussing the darkest aspects of dark psychology; instead, we will be looking at those aspects that you are more likely to experience in your day to day life. We will be looking at how you can deal with people who are narcissistic, sadistic, Machiavellian, and psychopathic. We will look at why and how they do what they do, and what you can do to keep yourself from falling victim to their machinations.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 

















Chapter 2: The 4 Dark Psychology Traits
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
For a long time, psychologists have referred to the dark human traits as "the dark triad," which consists of three negative personality traits; narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy. However, in recent years, many experts in the field have been insisting that garden-variety sadism should also be added to the list of major dark psychological traits. As a result, we are now moving away from the dark triad and toward the "4 dark psychology traits".  
 


 
 
 


 
In this chapter, we will take a look at each of the four traits and discuss them in detail. Before we look at those traits, it’s important to note that understanding them is very crucial if you want to have functional knowledge of how to avoid being manipulated. In fact, research into these traits has many applications in different fields, including; clinical psychology, law enforcement, and even business management. Studies show that people who score high when tested for the four traits are more likely to commit crimes, to cause problems within organizations, to cause distress to the people in their lives, and to society in general. In business situations, it may be important to keep people with such traits away from positions of power. 
 


 
 
 


 
We encounter instances of narcissism, Machiavellianism, sadism, and non-clinical psychopathy on a regular basis, and if we are keen, we might be able to notice them. Statistically, we all have these traits in us to some extent. In fact, when psychologists test people for these traits, they use testing methods that assume that these traits exist in a spectrum. To take sadism as an example, such tests imply that instead of having people who are sadistic and those who are not sadistic, we have people who have high levels of sadism and those who have low levels of sadism. 
 


 
 
 


 
Another important thing to note is that some of the characteristics that are displayed by people with each of the four traits can overlap, and this can be confusing, even for people who have professional training in psychology. For example, narcissists may behave in ways that are similar to Machiavellians or sadists. Because of this, it may be hard to tell what kind of dark trait a person has just by observing them for a short period of time. 
 


 
 
 


 
If someone does something that’s detrimental to others, you could be able to tell which dark trait the person has by examining the motivation, or the extent of the evil action. Don’t jump to conclusions; take some time to examine the person's behavior closely before you make any judgment. If the person’s actions are detrimental to you, it may be hard to stay objective when you are analyzing his dark personality trait, but it’s important to remember that you can only appropriately deal with people if you have a good understanding of their traits and motivations. You can try to remove yourself from the situation and analyze the person as an objective third-party observer.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism
 
 


 
Narcissism is the dark trait that is displayed by individuals who are narcissists. Narcissists display high levels of grandiosity, superiority, dominance, and entitlement. Narcissists tend to be charming people who have a positive outlook, which is why they are good at fooling other people. According to psychologists, narcissists are usually on the lookout for people to feed into their “narcissistic supply” because they want to use those people to build their own egos. They also lack empathy for others. 
 


 
 
 


 
One main characteristic that you see in narcissists is that they are quite good at building and cultivating relationships, and they can initially blind people to the fact that they are acting out of self-interest. We all tend to have narcissistic traits to varying extents, but there are few among us who have Narcissistic Personality Disorder. 
 


 
 
 


 
The terms Narcissist and Narcissism come from Narcissus, a character in Greek mythology. Narcissus was a hunter and a very attractive young man. He was so attractive that everyone seemed to fall in love with him. However, he only treated people with contempt and disdain, and he never returned the love that others showed him. Because of this, he was cursed by Nemesis (the goddess of revenge) to fall in love with his reflection in a pool of water. 
 


 
 
 


 
Just like Narcissus, modern-day narcissists are in love with themselves. However, psychologists have come to discover that narcissist don’t love the real versions of themselves; they are in love with perfect versions of themselves, which only exist in their imaginations. It’s easy to assume that narcissists have high self-esteem, but that is not actually the case; they have a perverse kind of self-esteem that is not predicated on accepting or loving who they are but loving a fictitious grandiose version of themselves. When a narcissist acts out of self-interest to someone’s detriment, it’s usually in pursuit of that grand vision of himself, even though he knows for a fact that it’s not real. 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists have an exaggerated sense of self-importance. They think they deserve to be treated better than everyone else around them. They have an exaggerated sense of entitlement, and they truly believe that when they receive favorable treatment in certain situations, it is for the common good. A narcissist thinks that when he is taking advantage of you, he is actually doing you a favor. This way, he can rationalize a lot of selfish and evil acts. In a relationship, a narcissist will think of himself as more important and more deserving than the other person. In the workplace, a narcissist will think that he has more natural talent than his colleagues, and he, therefore, deserves to be put in charge of projects or to be promoted ahead of everyone else.
 


 
 
 


 
The interesting thing about narcissism is that in some cases, it can make someone successful. Narcissism can be a self-fulfilling prophesy. When a narcissistic person believes that he is smarter than everyone else, he may work hard to prove it, and in the end, he may be more accomplished in his career. When a narcissist believes that he should be in a leadership position, he may exude confidence and acquire leadership traits, and the people around him will become truly convinced that he deserves to be their leader.  
 


 
 
 


 
Because of this fact, some have argued that narcissism could be a positive trait in a person who is ethical. The problem, however, is that most narcissists seem to believe that their needs come before everyone else's, so sooner or later, they are likely to do something unethical, and to betray the trust of those who hold them in high esteem. Narcissists who seem confident at the beginning will often turn out to be arrogant. A narcissist who seems ethical at the beginning will throw ethics out of the window as soon as he feels that his dominance is being threatened.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists believe that they are special, and to reinforce this belief, they surround themselves with people who tend to be agreeable. They want to be around people who will validate their inflated sense of self-worth. Now, even the most agreeable people have the ability to spot flaws in others, and after spending some time with narcissists, they will stop affirming the negative actions of the narcissist. To prevent this, narcissists try to control the thoughts and actions of the people around them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists are very controlling. They control people in both covert and overt ways. They try to manipulate others so that they keep feeding their “narcissistic supply,” and when people try to break from their control, they can react with anger or rage. In relationships, narcissists are more likely to practice domestic abuse because they are trying to keep the other person under their thumb. At work, narcissists are more likely to act vindictively because they want to punish others for challenging their dominance. Later in the book, we will discuss ways to deal with narcissistic people.  
 


 
 
 


 
Machiavellianism
 
 


 
Machiavellianism is a dark trait that involves deceitfulness and manipulation. Machiavellians tend to be very cynical people (not that they are skeptical or they have doubtful curiosity; they just don’t care for the moral restrictions that the rest of society adheres to). They tend to be amoral and self-interested. They don't have a sense of right and wrong; they'll take any course of action, as long as it serves their interests. 
 


 
 
 


 
Machiavellians are cold, unprincipled, and they are naturally adept at interpersonal manipulation. They believe that life is a zero-sum game and that the key to success is manipulating others. They approach all kinds of relationships with a cold, calculating attitude, and to them, when they desire a certain outcome in a given situation, the end invariably justifies the means.
 


 
 
 


 
Machiavellianism is named after Niccolò Machiavelli, the Italian political philosopher who is best known for writing The Prince. The book offers advice on how one can control the masses and manipulate people in order to gain power over them. The book teaches people to be cunning, manipulative, and deceitful, as long as they get what they want. It argues that in pursuit of one's interests, it’s morally justifiable to harm others. In this sense, Machiavellianism is similar to narcissism because, in both traits, there is an underlying belief that one’s own interests serve the common good, even if people are hurt in the process. 
 


 
 
 


 
People with these traits are likely to cheat, lie, and harm others in order to achieve their goals. They are emotionally detached from the people around them, so if you are in a relationship with them, you may notice that all your experiences are shallow. They won’t hesitate to harm others if it’s expedient for them. Where narcissist, sadists, and psychopaths may harm others for their own enjoyment, because they lack empathy, or to fulfill certain emotional needs, Machiavellians will do it for a rational and arguably pragmatic purpose. They have little consideration for the emotional collateral damage that they leave behind; in fact, they only care about others’ emotions if they know it will come back to haunt them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Machiavellians seem to have "cold empathy" as opposed to "hot empathy." Cold empathy is an understanding of how people may think or act in certain situations, or how certain events may unfold. On the other hand, hot empathy refers to be being aware of and caring about people's emotions in a given situation. Normal people have hot empathy, which means that they understand how others feel, and they take care not to negatively impact the sensibilities of those around them. Machiavellians tend to understand the moves that others are likely to make in specific situations, but they don’t resonate with other people’s emotions. As a result, they tend to come across as unfriendly, emotionally distant, and harsh. 
 


 
 
 


 
Some psychologists and anthropologists have argued that Machiavellianism could be an evolutionary advantage and that it’s, therefore, a desirable trait. Machiavellians understand people’s emotional reactions, which helps them deal with real and perceived threats, but they can technically bypass empathy when reacting to threats, which means that their actions are more effective. If the rule of the jungle (survival of the fittest) applies, then Machiavellians are more likely to thrive. The problem with this argument is that we are not in the jungle anymore, and society only functions if we all care about the welfare of others. 
 


 
 
 


 
Machiavellians are master manipulators, and they are highly likely to be involved in white collar crimes. People with this trait are more likely to be involved in embezzlement schemes, pyramid schemes, stock swindling schemes, overpricing schemes, and political crimes. They work their way to the top by manipulating people, and when they get to positions of power (whether in business or in politics), they use the same techniques to manipulate the masses. 
 


 
 
 


 
Psychopathy
 
 


 
Of all the dark traits, psychopathy is the most malevolent. Psychopaths have very low levels of empathy, so they don't care for others. On the other hand, they have extremely high levels of impulsiveness, and they are thrill-seeking individuals. They are very callous, very manipulative, and they have a heightened sense of grandiosity. They seek thrills without caring about the harm that they inflict on others in the process.
 


 
 
 


 
Psychopaths are more difficult to spot than you might think. They tend to keep normal outward appearances; even though they lack empathy and a conscience, they learn to act normally by observing others' emotional reactions. They can even come across as charming when they are trying to manipulate you. They are volatile, and they have criminal tendencies, although this isn’t always the case. 
 


 
 
 


 
There is a lot of interest and fascination with psychopaths, which is why you see so many depictions of them in pop culture. However, with fascination comes misconceptions. We tend to think of psychopaths as serial killers, bomber, super villains, and people who are certifiably insane, and the danger here is that we forget that most psychopaths are just normal (at least by all appearances), and they can harm us in other ways. People who like starting fights, who disregard your emotions and those who consistently lie to you may turn out to be psychopaths. 
 


 
 
 


 
Adult psychopathy cannot be treated. However, when psychopathic tendencies are observed in children and young people, they can be put through certain programs that teach them to be less callous and more considerate of others. 
 


 
 
 


 
A key thing you need to understand is the difference between a psychopath and a sociopath. In colloquial conversations, these two terms are often used interchangeably, but in psychology, they have different meanings. A sociopath is a person who has antisocial tendencies. Now, these antisocial tendencies are usually a result of social and environmental factors; for example, a person who has a bad childhood may turn out to be a sociopath because he doesn’t trust society in general, or he has developed certain psychological issues as a result of the unfavorable upbringing. 
 


 
 
 


 
On the other hand, psychopathic traits are innate. People don't become psychopaths; they are born psychopaths. However, social and environmental factors may contribute to a person's particular brand of psychopathy. For example, people who are born with psychopathic traits and are brought up in an environment that is chaotic and violent, are more likely to have more pronounced manifestations of their psychopathy. Experts agree that there are three main factors that contribute towards psychopathy; genetics, brain anatomy, and environmental factors.  
 


 
 
 


 
Like the other dark traits, psychopathy exists on a spectrum. Clinicians use a scale assessment system to measure the level of psychopathy; everyone falls somewhere on that scale, but people with a score of 30 and above as considered to have psychopathy that rises to the level of clinical significance. The Hare Psychopathy Checklist is used by mental health professionals to check for psychopathy, mostly in clinical patients and in criminals, but if you suspect that someone you are dealing with is a psychopath, you can find it online and use it for free as a guide if you want to know for sure that you are indeed dealing with a psychopath. 
 


 
 
 


 
Sadism
 
 


 
Like the other three dark traits, sadism is characterized by callousness. Sadists tend to have normal levels of impulsiveness and manipulation, which explains why this trait wasn’t originally included in what is now known as the "dark triad." The defining characteristic of sadists is that they enjoy cruelty.  
 


 
 
 


 
Everyday sadists tend to be normal and functional by all indications, but they enjoy harming others. Sadists are referred to as “everyday sadists” because it’s important to make a distinction between them and the narcissists, Machiavellians, and psychopaths who may manifest sadism as part of their other dark traits. Sadists are intrinsically motivated to cause others harm, even if they are completely innocent. Sometimes, sadists can prioritize the infliction of emotional pain on others even if it comes at a personal cost to them. They find cruelty to be pleasurable and exciting, and some even find it sexually stimulating. 
 


 
 
 


 
Some psychologists have noted that sadists are often drawn towards career paths where they are allowed to harm other people under the guise of legitimate work. That means that many of them flock towards law enforcement, the military, etc. Psychologists have observed that when the levels of sadism in police forces are compared to the levels of sadism in the general population, the levels within police departments are always invariably higher. This could explain why police forces often have problems with some of their members taking the law into their own hands.  
 


 
 
 


 
Sadists tend to inflict pain on people around them for no reason, and they are likely to escalate, especially when they discover that the person in question is less likely to push back. That explains why bullies keep picking on people who don't stand up to them.
 


 
 
 


 
Sadists are the kind of people who would tell your secrets to other people even after promising to keep them private because they enjoy it when you experience discomfort. They are also more likely to portray others in false or unflattering terms, with the intention of damaging the other person’s reputation; while Machiavellians may do this to advance their personal agenda, sadists would do this because it’s fun for them. Sadists may also work actively to get you fired from your job or to jeopardize your success, not because they want to get ahead of you, but just because they want you to be unhappy. They may also try to ruin your personal relationships; they’ll cause turmoil in your relationship, then sit back and enjoy the drama and misery. They are more likely to steal other people's property, not because they need it, but because they don't want what the other person to have it. They are more likely to bully you either in real life or online.
 


 
 
 


 
You can always spot a sadist by the comments and remarks he makes online. Most internet trolls tend to be everyday sadists. They will make negative comments about pretty much anything, not because they strongly believe in the opinion that they have, but because they want to annoy you or get a rise out of you. They’ll always find something negative to say about even the most unifying things online. With trolls, the more you engage with them, the more energized they become, and the more they’ll bother you online.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 

















Chapter 3: Psychological Manipulation Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Psychological manipulation is defined as a form of social influence which seeks to alter the behavior and the perceptions of others, by the use of tactics that are indirect, deceptive, and underhanded. In other words, it’s about using certain tricks to get people to act in a certain way or to think certain things, usually to the advantage of whoever is perpetrating the manipulation. 
 


 
 
 


 
This way, the interests of the manipulator are advanced, usually at the expense of the other person in that equation. Psychological manipulation employs methods that are both devious and exploitative, and they are often used by people who have one or more of the dark personality traits that we discussed in the previous chapter. 
 


 
 
 


 
Now, from the very start, we need to make sure you understand that not all psychological manipulation and social influence is negative. It’s possible to manipulate someone for their own good. For instance, parents may manipulate their children into eating vegetables. In as much as that is manipulation, it ends up benefiting the child because his or her health is improved. Similarly, friends, family members, and healthcare professionals may try to influence you using certain manipulation technique with the aim of getting you to make the right choices in certain situations. 
 


 
 
 


 
Social influence is a normal and important part of social discourse. In healthy social influence, there is no aspect of coercion. In other words, when a well-meaning person tries to influence you, and you resist that influence, they are not going to strong-arm you into doing what they want. However, in unhealthy psychological manipulation, the manipulator often resorts to coercive techniques if they sense that you are resistant to the softer techniques that they have been trying to use on you.  
 


 
 
 


 
When malicious people deploy psychological manipulation techniques against you, they usually try to conceal the aggressive nature of their intentions, so you have to understand that most of their techniques are designed to be subtle. Most of them will also take some time to get to know you and understand your psychological vulnerabilities before they can decide which manipulation techniques will work on you. This means that just because you have known someone for a while, and you haven’t seen them try to harm you in any way, it doesn’t guarantee the fact that their intentions are pure, which means that you shouldn’t start disregarding your instincts about them. The best manipulators are those who reveal their intentions long after you have decided to trust them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Remember that manipulators generally have a tendency toward ruthlessness, so even if they are treating you well at the beginning of your association with them, pay close attention to the way they act towards others. If you see them using manipulation techniques against other people, you should know that it’s just a matter of time before they get around to using the same techniques against you. 
 


 
 
 


 
In this chapter, we discuss the most common psychological manipulation techniques that are used by people who mean to harm you or to take advantage or you. It’s important to understand these techniques and how they work so that you can be able to spot them when they are being used against you or someone close to you, and so that you can know how to defend against them.
 


 
 
 


 
Gaslighting
 
 


 
Gaslighting is one of the most lethal psychological manipulation techniques out there. It’s where a manipulator tries to get their target to start questioning their own reality. It involves getting someone to doubt their own memories and perceptions, and instead, to start believing what the manipulator wants them to believe. 
 


 
 
 


 
The manipulator will sow seeds of doubt in the person so that they start thinking that either they remember things wrong, or they are losing their sanity. Gaslighting involves the persistent denial of things that obvious facts. It also involves a lot of misdirection, contradictions, and blatant lying. When a person is subjected to gaslighting for a long time, they start to become unstable, and they start feeling as though their own beliefs are illegitimate.
 


 
 
 


 
One common example of gaslighting is where an abuser convinces the victim that the abusive incident she recalls did not even occur. This phenomenon is more common than you might imagine, and it happens in all sorts of relationships. An abusive spouse might deny ever abusing you when confronted later, by either blatantly denying that they abuse occurred, or claiming that it didn’t happen as you remember and that your version of the events is greatly exaggerated. 
 


 
 
 


 
A manipulative boss or colleague might prey on a subordinate and later deny that it happened that way. Someone who groped you might later claim that they "accidentally brushed against you," and they may insist on it so much, to the point that you start thinking that maybe you were mistaken. 
 


 
 
 


 
You may wonder; “How does it even work? I mean, I have a firm grasp of my own reality, and I doubt someone could be able to convince me that my perceptions are wrong!”
 


 
 
 


 
It’s easy to assume that gaslighting won’t work on you because you are smart or because you are strong-willed, but the truth is that when a manipulator is good at what he is doing, you might not even see it coming. The way it works is that it often starts with small lies on the manipulator's part and small concessions on your part.  
 


 
 
 


 
Say, for example, your boyfriend shows up a few minutes late to an appointment when you had agreed to meet at a specific time, and he insists that he is on time and that it’s you who came in a bit earlier and is mistaken about the timing that you agreed upon. At that moment, you might think, "Well, a 10-minute difference isn't such a big deal, and maybe we just got our lines crossed". You could dismiss this small discrepancy because it seems inconsequently, but that will just be the beginning. The next time, the lie will get a little bigger, and you will feel obligated to excuse it as well, because you already let something else slide, so it would seem inconsistent if you made a big fuss at this point.  
 


 
 
 


 
After that initial seed is sown, the lies will start to escalate, and you will continue making concessions and agreeing with things that you know are lies, until one day, you realize that you are so far gone. You might not even notice when the small lies graduate into bigger lies. In every step of the way, you will be letting go of your reality and accepting the other person's version of things, and you will find yourself trusting their judgment over your own.  
 


 
 
 


 
In a nutshell, gaslighting involves desensitizing you to your own reality, until the truth becomes what the other person says it is. 
 


 
 
 


 
Gaslighting is more likely to work in situations where there is a power dynamic between two people, or between a person and a group of people. In a relationship where the victim is financially or emotionally dependent on the manipulator, the victim may accept to let go of her reality because its more comfortable to do so than to stand up to the manipulator, only to end up losing the relationship. In the workplace, a subordinate may go along with the boss’s lies because he is afraid of losing his job. In a situation where a leader gaslight his followers, it often works because deep within, the followers want to believe whatever lies the leader is telling them. 
 


 
 
 


 
There are several techniques that gas lighters use to get a stranglehold on their victims. One such technique is withholding. This is where the manipulator refuses to listen to what the victim says or pretends not to understand what they are saying. You might bring up something important, but the response you get is, "I don't even remember this thing you keep talking about."
 


 
 
 


 
Another gaslighting technique is called countering. This is where the manipulator questions the victim’s memory of the events in questions. They say things like “Were you even sober? Because that is not how that happened." The manipulator would then go on to offer an entirely different version of the story, where he casts himself as the hero or even the "real victim."  
 


 
 
 


 
Gas lighters also use blocking and diverting as a manipulation technique. This is where they change the story or question the way the victim is thinking in order to avoid addressing whatever issue the victim is raising. 
 


 
 
 


 
Trivializing is also a common gaslighting technique. This is where the manipulator makes the victim feel that her feelings or needs aren't that important, or that she is just being unnecessarily dramatic. Manipulators in such cases may say things like "don't blow things out of proportion."  
 


 
 
 


 
You may be able to tell if someone is gaslighting you if you find that you are frequently second-guessing yourself, or that your convictions fade away when you interact with a certain person. If a person makes you ruminate about certain character flaws, they are most likely gaslighting you. Someone who tells you that you are too emotional might really be trying to get you to stop trusting your emotions. If you feel confused about the nature of your relationship, or you feel like the person is driving you crazy, or that you are losing control when you are with them, they might be gaslighting you. 
 


 
 
 


 
If you walk into a room with the intention of having a discussion about something specific, but a few moments later, you find yourself arguing with your partner about a whole other topic, it means that the person is deliberately frustrating your genuine efforts to communicate, and it could be a sign of gaslighting. 
 


 
 
 


 
If you feel fuzzy about your own beliefs, thoughts, and feelings whenever you are with someone that is a clear red flag. When you are being gaslighted, you might also find that you are constantly apologizing for “being mistaken” or that you are frequently making excuses to yourself and to others for your partner’s behavior. 
 


 
 
 


 
Projection
 


 
Projection is a psychological manipulation technique where someone transfers their emotions and mistakes onto you. Projection is a defense mechanism that almost everyone uses to some extent. We all have a natural tendency to project our negative emotions and undesirable feelings onto the people around us, and this often happens when we feel like we have been put on the spot. However, in as much as we all do it, narcissists and people with other dark personality traits tend to do it excessively and to absurd extents.  
 


 
 
 


 
Toxic people find it very difficult to admit even to themselves that the nasty things around them could be a result of their own doing, and they always find people to blame for every little thing that happens. Such people often go out of their way to avoid taking responsibility for their own actions. As a result, they may assign their negative behavior and traits to you. For example, if you have a boss who is always late to work, you might be surprised to find him accusing you of tardiness even if you are consistently punctual.  A kleptomaniac is more likely to accuse you of stealing his/her personal items.  
 


 
 
 


 
In relationships, a manipulator who cheats on your is more likely to accuse you of cheating in him/her or to act in a way that suggests that he/she suspects you of cheating. When a person is cheating on you, he may choose to spy on you by checking your messages, phone calls, and emails, and he is more likely to barrage you with questions every time you are a few minutes late. Now, a good partner may get a little suspicious or insecure if you suddenly become more secretive or absent, but if your partner starts treating you with suspicion even if you acting completely normal, chances are they are the ones who are cheating, and they are just projecting it onto you.  
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators tend to project partly because they want to destruct you and to keep you on the defensive, and this gives them more control over your life. When they accuse you of certain things, and you feel like you owe them an explanation, it allows them to dominate you; in other words, it becomes as though they are the “boss or you” and you now have to answer to them. As you frantically try to defend yourself from the accusations that they have made against you, they get to do whatever they want, and you never get the time to call them out on their mistakes. They are also counting on the fact that it would feel weird and childish if you accused them of the exact thing, they have already accused you of, so it takes away the possibility that you might confront them based on suspicions that you might have. 
 


 
 
 


 
As we have mentioned, projection is something that everyone does, and that can complicate things for you if a manipulative person project onto you. When someone projects negative emotions onto you, you might have a natural inclination to project your sense of empathy and compassion back onto them. This explains why projection works so well as a manipulation technique. Even when someone is accusing you of doing something bad, you will still feel compassion for them, and you will go out of your way to reassure them that they are mistaken; but when you do this, they win, albeit with your help. When you feel like someone is projecting onto you, the best thing you can do is leave your own emotions out of the equation and try to respond as rationally as possible. 
 


 
 
 


 
Isolation
 


 
We all have social support systems that help us cope with difficult situations and keep us from making decisions that are bad for us. We have friends and family members who take notice when our behavior changes, or when we start hanging out with "bad people," and they always watch our backs. Manipulators understand this, and one of the first things that they'll do when trying to gain control over your life is to isolate you.  
 


 
 
 


 
Isolation facilitates abuse because it takes away any recourse that you might have when someone starts getting abusive. It closes a victim's avenues of escape, and it increases their sense of helplessness. It ensures that when things go south, there's no one there to rescue you. It increases the power that the abuser or manipulator has over the victim because it makes the victim more dependent on the abuser. 
 


 
 
 


 
Isolating the victim from the outside world is widely used by all sort of manipulators. When a cult leader tries to indoctrinate young recruits, he will make sure that they are locked away so that he can have complete control over the information that they receive. The same happens in abusive relationships, workplace bullying, and many other areas. 
 


 
 
 


 
When an abuser sets out to isolate you, he will start by driving a wedge between you and the people that you depend on. He will learn everything about the dynamics between you and your family and friends, and he will use the weaknesses in your bonds to sow distrust and conflict. For example, if a guy knows that you are close with your sister, but you have some unresolved childhood conflicts with her, he may try to reignite those conflicts so that you start drifting apart. 
 


 
 
 


 
In the workplace, a manipulator may create animosity between you and your colleagues so that they get mad at you and stop siding with you or watching your back. If you join a cult or any sort of group and the leader is a manipulator, he may insist that you cut ties with your family and friends, and only depend on other people within that group.
 


 
 
 


 
Rivals in business, at work, or even in your personal life can isolate you by smearing your name and discrediting you with other members of the community. “Divide and conquer” is also a form of isolation that is used especially by people with the Machiavellianism trait. In this instance, the manipulator is using isolation as a double-edged sword to gain control over both parties that are being pulled apart from each other. 
 


 
 
 


 
Once an abuser has managed to isolate you, he will take his abuse to the next level because he knows you have no one to turn to. In fact, other manipulation techniques such as gaslighting work even more effectively when a person is isolated. 
 


 
 
 


 
They say that love is blind, and sometimes, at the beginning or relationships, we are blind to the dark traits of the people we are dating. Some manipulators may try to isolate you from the very first time you meet them. If you start dating someone and you notice that he never wants to hang out at your place, or he never wants you to bring your friends along on casual dates, chances are he is trying to isolate you so that you cannot get your friends to give you an objective assessment of his character. 
 


 
 
 


 
In the workplace, isolation can take many different forms. A person may isolate you by denying you access to certain opportunities, withholding important information from you, or keeping you out of the loop on matters that are crucial to your job performance. 
 


 
 
 


 
Isolation can also be used by a manipulative person as a form of punishment if you are not doing what he wants. For example, an abusive person might invite all your friends and acquaintances to a gathering, but fail to invite you, so that you feel left out, and you are forced to do what he wants just to score an invite to the next gathering. 
 


 
 
 


 
Positive Reinforcement
 
 


 
We always think of positive reinforcement as a good thing, but malicious people can also use it to manipulate their victims. The fact is that we all use positive reinforcement in one form or another. Parents use it to get their kids to behave properly, teachers use it to make their students more interested in school, bosses use it to encourage productivity, and partners use it to modify each other’s behavior in relationships. It is an integral part of our social interactions, but it only becomes a problem when it’s detrimental of the person it’s being used on. 
 


 
 
 


 
Positive reinforcement happens when a good or desirable stimulus is presented in such a way that it appears to be a consequence of certain behavior. For example, a child who eats his vegetables gets a scoop of ice-cream at the end of the meal, and it registers in his mind that those two things are intricately linked. An employee who works hard and becomes more productive gets a bonus at the end of the month, and her brain makes the connection between the hard work and the extra disposable income. The next time the person has to perform the same activity, he/she will recall the positive feeling or the reward from earlier and will take a course of action that ensures he/she gets a similar outcome.  
 


 
 
 


 
When manipulators use positive reinforcements, they are always trying to get you to do things that benefit them. For example, an abusive person in a relationship may buy you a gift after a major abusive incident in order to keep you from leaving or reporting him. You may have heard of people who hit their spouses and then buy them flowers the next day. In such cases, the abuser is trying to get you to accept the abuse as a norm that comes with a reward. The message here is that "if you shut up, you get something nice."
 


 
 
 


 
Positive reinforcement is also used by manipulators who want you to be their accomplice when they are taking advantage of a third party. Machiavellians are particularly good at using this technique. For example, a boss who embezzles from work may offer you a payoff to keep his secret.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators often use positive reinforcement on an incremental basis when they want you to do something against your will. The objective here is to lull you into complacency. They know that once you have accepted a basic level of positive reinforcement, they can escalate things and push you outside of your comfort zone.
 


 
 
 


 
The simplest and most commonly used form of positive reinforcement is a commendation. When someone goes out of their way to compliment you in public, they could be using positive reinforcement to manipulate you. For instance, when you are with a group of friends and one of them starts saying what a nice guy you are, how much they know they can rely on you, the chances are that he is buttering you up to ask you for a favor.  
 


 
 
 


 
Negative Reinforcement
 
 


 
Negative reinforcement is a form of psychological manipulation which is used to make people feel obligated to act in certain ways in order to avoid certain levels of mental or physical pain or discomfort. In positive reinforcement, you get a reward for acting the way the manipulator wants you to act, and the desire for that reward is what modifies your behavior in the future. Negative reinforcement is, however, a bit more complicated than that.  
 


 
 
 


 
To understand the concept of negative reinforcement, you first have to understand how it’s different from punishment. Both of them are popular manipulation techniques, but there is a subtle difference between them. Many people assume that they are the same thing, but they are not. In punishment, the manipulator adds something negative when you don't act a certain way. In negative reinforcement, the manipulator subtracts something negative when you act the way they want you to act. 
 


 
 
 


 
Reinforcement is meant to strengthen voluntary responses, while punishment is meant to weaken voluntary responses; the manipulator will choose one method or the other based on the kind of outcome that they desire in that particular situation. 
 


 
 
 


 
While punishment is meant to stop a certain behavior from occurring again, reinforcement is meant to encourage the behavior to occur again. A manipulator would use punishment to stop you from doing something he doesn’t want you to do. However, he will use negative reinforcement to force you to do (or to keep doing) something he wants. For example, nagging is more of a negative reinforcement technique than a punishment. When someone wants you to do something, they keep nagging you to do it, and the nagging (which is the negative stimulus) stops when you comply. So, negative reinforcement works on you because you want to put a stop to a negative stimulus that already exists, while punishment works because you want to keep something negative from happening.  
 


 
 
 


 
 Every time someone does something negative to twist your arm to get you to take a certain course of action; that is negative reinforcement. When you are trying to break up with someone, and he/she cries very loudly about it in a public place, until you change your mind, they are using negative reinforcement to manipulate you (at that moment, you feel that the uncomfortable stares from strangers will only stop if you take the person back).  
 


 
 
 


 
Sanctions are also a very common form of negative reinforcement. They are used by powerful nations to get other nations to bend to their will, but they can also be used in interpersonal relationships or at work in one form or another. A sanction is basically a threat of a future consequence if you fail to do something. Sanctions may be used in relationships for the common good or for malicious intentions; you have to assess the individual situation to tell if the use of sanctioning (or any other negative reinforcement technique) is malicious. 
 


 
 
 


 
Punishment
 


 
In psychological manipulation, punishment is a negative action that is taken by the manipulator to weaken the victim’s voluntary responses. Punishment works because it makes the victim fear the consequences of going against the will of the manipulator. We have already looked at how punishment differs from negative reinforcement, but we should point out that in some instances, those two can overlap. In this segment, we will take a look at some of the most common types of punishment that people with dark personality traits use to manipulate their victims.
 


 
 
 


 
Nagging
 
 


 
Nagging, also known as pestering or hectoring, is a form of manipulation where one person continuously urges another to do something, despite the other person previously refusing to do it or to agree to do it at a later time. One author famously described nagging as an interaction where one person makes a repeated request while the other person repeatedly ignores that request, and both people become annoyed as the battle of wills escalates. 
 


 
 
 


 
Although it has negative connotations, nagging is actually an integral part of interpersonal communication in many social dynamics. Parents nag their kids to get them to do certain things. In fact, nagging is necessary when training children to take up certain constructive habits. Nagging may also be used by well-meaning people; friends or partners may nag you to do things that benefit you. In fact, some amount of nagging is necessary even in healthy relationships. However, people with dark personality traits may nag you to do things that benefit them and impact you negatively. 
 


 
 
 


 
To tell if the person nagging you has malicious intentions, you have to examine the individual situation. Are they asking you to do something that only benefits them? Does the nagging seem forceful? Do you detect anger or threats in their body language and in the words they choose to use? Are they trying to guilt you into doing something you don’t want to do? 
 


 
 
 


 
If your girlfriend repeatedly asks you to take out the trash, that might indicate that she has some control issues, but that’s not the same thing as having malicious intentions. When malicious people nag you, there is usually an “or else” to what they are asking you to do, and if you look at the subtext, you will realize that it’s more of a demand than a request.  
 


 
 
 


 
Yelling
 
 


 
Yelling works as a manipulation technique for one simple reason; it makes you feel uncomfortable or afraid to the point that you comply with whatever the manipulator wants you to do. There are two main ways in which manipulators use yelling to manipulate others. People either yell to dominate over you, or to play the victim and to gain your sympathy.
 


 
 
 


 
Yelling can be used to intimidate someone. When a manipulative person yells at you, he may be trying to intimidate you because you are more likely to do what he wants if you are afraid of them. Manipulative people resort to yelling partly because at that moment; they know that they are unable to make a logical argument to get you to do what they want. They know that if you stick to the facts of the matter, you might come out on top, so they yell because they want to disorient you and make you lose the argument by default. 
 


 
 
 


 
When a person raises their voice during an argument, it’s a clear sign of rising hostility, but it could also be a sign that they are passionate about the topic of discussion. You have to assess yelling in context to understand if it’s being used to manipulate you. Just like with the other manipulation techniques; you have to look at the person's intent.  
 


 
 
 


 
When manipulators use yelling to play the victim during an interaction, they often (but not always) choose to do it in front of an audience. When a person (particularly one who is perceived to be weaker) yells at you in a public place, by-passers who don’t have the full story of what’s going on will automatically assume that you are on the wrong, and that puts you on the spot. You may be forced to agree with the person’s request just to avoid the judgmental eyes of strangers.
 


 
 
 


 
Silent treatment
 
 


 
The silent treatment works as a manipulation technique because it's a form of love withdrawal. When a person gives you the silent treatment, they are essentially saying, "I’m taking away the love unless you do what I want." It is a form of punishment that is designed to control people, and it's a very popular type of emotional abuse.  
 


 
 
 


 
The silent treatment only works in cases where there is some level of emotional dependency between the two parties (you don't really care if a total stranger gave you the silent treatment). In certain dynamics, the silent treatment can be used to make you feel powerless and invisible; as if you don’t even exist.  
 


 
 
 


 
As social beings, we need the approval and the affection of others to thrive. Even people who are introverted need to have some sort of back and forth with the people in their lives to feel whole. When someone gives you the silent treatment, they deny you that affection, and it can mess with you psychologically, and force you to make certain concessions that you aren't ready to make. 
 


 
 
 


 
So, a manipulator will ask you to do something, and when you say no, he/she will start ignoring you. They won’t respond when you talk to them, and they won’t answer your calls or texts. Some of them may even suddenly vanish from your life or go out of their way to avoid being in the same room with you. The more emotionally involved you are, the higher the chances you will decide that the animosity isn’t worth you standing your ground, and you will find yourself doing what they want. 
 


 
 
 


 
The silent treatment is one of those bad habits that tend to escalate with time in a relationship. If someone uses this technique against you once and it works, they’ll start using it at every turn.
 


 
 
 


 
Intimidation
 
 


 
Intimidation can either be covert or overt, but in either case, it’s used by manipulators to get you to bend to their will out of fear.  
 


 
 
 


 
Overt intimidation is also known as bullying. This is where manipulators make open threats to get you to do what they want. They’ll use fear to threaten you into submission. It may be a threat of physical violence. They’ll brandish anger and rage to prove to you that they have violent tendencies. If you stand your ground, they may even resort to actual physical violence. They are usually angry people who have problems with authority.
 


 
 
 


 
Covert intimidation involves the use of veiled or vague threats to manipulate people. People who use covert intimidation has violent tendencies, but they try to control themselves because society frowns at overt displays of violence. Such people are very dangerous because they are good at hiding their true nature from the rest of the world. These are the kinds of people who abuse their spouses indoors but then present a charismatic character to the rest of the world. 
 


 
 
 


 
People who use convert intimidation tend to be very calculated, and they are good at coming up with diabolical ways of punishing you if you don’t do what they want.  
 


 
 
 


 
Traumatic one-trial learning
 
 


 
One-trial learning refers to singular experiences that we encounter, which end up shaping our behavior in the future. This sort of experience is usually traumatizing and powerful enough to serve as a deterrent from acting in a certain way for the rest of our lives. 
 


 
 
 


 
In many cases, one-trial learning may occur without anyone inducing it or imposing it on us. For example, if you try a certain kind of food for the first time, and then you get a serious bout of food poisoning, you may be traumatized to the point that you avoid eating that food again in the future. One-trial learning is important for humans and all animals because it’s crucial for survival. When we were still hunters and foragers, one-trial learning would help us avoid foods that were poisonous or situations that were dangerous.  
 


 
 
 


 
Malicious people use one-trial learning as a manipulation technique to get us to tow certain lines. The way it works is they induce the traumatic experience in such a way as to ensure that our brains associate certain actions with the trauma. 
 


 
 
 


 
One such example is corporal punishment. Corporal punishment is less common in Western societies than it was a few decades back, but it is one of the easiest forms of traumatic one-trial learning to understand. It used to be that when a child did something wrong, the parents (or teachers) would hit him while making it very clear to the child why he was being punished. In future, when the child considered making the same mistake again, he would remember the pain that he experienced earlier, and he would decide that the action was not worth a repetition of the painful experience. Of course, corporal punishment is now either frowned upon or illegal in most jurisdictions because it causes serious psychological wounds and self-esteem issues. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators use traumatic one-trial learning in many different ways. They use verbal abuse, intimidation, and explosive anger to traumatize people and keep them from acting in certain ways in the future. For instance, let’s say that you are in a team with a colleague who isn’t pulling his/her weight on the project you are working on. One day, you decide to confront him about it in a calm and rational way. However, he reacts in a very explosive way. He calls you names, throws a tantrum, causes a scene, and he makes you extremely uncomfortable and traumatized. In the future, when a similar issue arises, you will be afraid to confront him, so he gets away with it. In this case, he has manipulated you by conditioning you to avoid confronting or upsetting him in the future.  
 


 
 
 


 
There are many variations in the way traumatic one-trial learning works, and it’s commonly used to manipulate people in interpersonal relationships. The next time you want to do something, but you decide against it because you had a bad experience in the past, you should know that you are dealing with traumatic one-trial learning; if the situation is tied to a specific person, that should indicate to you that the person is a manipulator.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulation of facts
 
 


 
Manipulation of facts is one of the most effective psychological manipulation techniques because it is based on facts that are subject to interpretation. When a person manipulates facts, he is technically not lying; he is just using the facts in his favor. It could involve cherry picking facts, omitting certain facts, or taking facts out of context. 
 


 
 
 


 
Even the most indisputable facts are subject to interpretation, and people with dark personality traits are very good at coming up with interpretations that portray them in the best possible light. Machiavellians are especially skilled at using factual information to turn bad things into seemingly good things. 
 


 
 
 


 
One way to manipulate facts in interpersonal relationships is by making excuses. People can excuse all sorts of bad behavior by creating narratives that warp the context of the objectionable actions that they have taken. 
 


 
 
 


 
Another way to manipulate facts is by blaming the victim for causing his/her victimization. There are many documented cases where abusers in relationships were able to convince their victims that they did certain things to deserve the abuse. There are many wife beaters who defend themselves by saying, "you made me do it."  This manipulation technique often works more effectively after the victim has been isolated from her support system. Victims who are in love or are dependent on the abuser are more likely to accept warped interpretations of abusive events because their own judgment is impaired by their affection for the abuser. 
 


 
 
 


 
Withholding of key information, or strategic disclosure of facts, is another common technique that involves manipulation of facts. Someone might be telling you the truth with the intention of manipulation you. Manipulators know that your reaction to certain information depends on the mood you are in when you receive the information, or whether or not you will consider that information a priority at the moment you receive it. Manipulators also know that hiding certain key details can affect the way you digest and react to information. 
 


 
 
 


 
Strategic disclosures and withholding of key details are used every day in interpersonal relationships, in business, and even in political discourse. Politicians use this all the time. When they have information that could damage their standing with the public, but they have a legal obligation to release it, they often do it at the close of business on Friday, when most people are looking forward to the weekend, and they aren’t paying attention to the news. This way, they ensure the damaging information doesn’t get a lot of media coverage. 
 


 
 
 


 
Other ways to manipulate facts include; exaggeration of the facts, sensationalizing or the facts, understating facts, or presenting facts with one-sided biases. Everyone uses all of these techniques to some extent; you have to examine each person’s intent to determine whether or not they are malicious.
 


 
 
 


 
Mind control and mind games
 
 


 
The term mind control has many definitions and interpretations, but the crucial thing to note is that it doesn't involve any sort of magic or supernatural ability; it just requires a rudimentary understanding of human emotions and behavior. Mind control can involve brainwashing a person, reeducating them, reforming their thoughts, using coercive techniques to persuade them of certain things, or brain-sweeping.
 


 
 
 


 
There are many forms of mind control, and we could fill an entire book discussing all those forms, but for our purposes, we will look at the concept in general terms. Mind control means a person is trying to get others to feel, think, or behave in a certain way, or to react and make decisions following a certain pattern. It could vary from a girl trying to get her boyfriend to develop certain habits, to a cult leader trying to convince his followers that he is God. 
 


 
 
 


 
Mind control is based on one thing: information. We have the thoughts and beliefs that we do because we learned them. When we are subjected to new information on a deliberate and consistent basis, it’s possible to alter our beliefs, thoughts, or even memories. 
 


 
 
 


 
The brain is hardwired to survive, and towards that end, it’s very good at learning information that is crucial for our survival. When you receive certain information consistently, your brain will start to believe it even if you know it’s not true. For example, even if you are the most rational person out there, if you go online and watch 100 videos about a certain conspiracy theory, you will start to believe it to some extent. That explains why people who seem smart can end up getting indoctrinated into cults or even terrorist groups.
 


 
 
 


 
Mind control also works more effectively when one is dependent on the person who is trying to control his/her mind. Even in relationships that are involuntary, the victim can start buying the perpetrator’s world view if they have been dependent on the perpetrator for a long time. That explains phenomena such as Stockholm syndrome (where people who are kidnapped or held hostage start being affectionate towards their captors and empathizing with their causes). 
 


 
 
 


 
The worst thing you can do is assume that you are too smart for mind control to work on you. Under the right circumstances, anyone can be persuaded to abandon their world view and adopt someone else's.  
 


 
 
 


 
Mind games are covert tricks that are deliberately crafted in order to manipulate someone. Think of them as "handcrafted" psychological manipulation techniques. While other techniques are applied broadly, mind games are created to target very specific people. They work best when the victim trusts the perpetrator, and the perpetrator understands the victim’s personality and behavior. 
 


 
 
 


 
Most of the psychological manipulation techniques we have discussed thus far can be used when crafting mind games. A person who understands you will tell you certain things or behave in certain ways around you because they are deliberately trying to get you to react in a certain way. It almost always involves feigning certain emotions. 
 


 
 
 


 
People who play mind games use innocent sounding communication to elicit calculated reactions from you. Psychologists refer to such mind games as “conscious one-upmanship," and they have observed that they occur in all areas of life. Mind games occur in office politics, personal relationships, and even in international diplomacy.  
 


 
 
 


 
At work, someone could try to make you feel like you are not up to the task so that they can steal an opportunity from you. In a marriage, your partner could make certain seemingly innocent slights against you so that you feel like you have something to prove, and you take a certain course of action as a result. In dating, there are “pickup artists” who use different kinds of tricks to get you to lower your guard and let them in.
 

















Chapter 4: Behavioral and Character Traits of the Manipulators
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Being able to tell if someone is taking advantage of you or manipulating you is one of the most important survival skills that you need today. Everyone around you has their own interests and agendas, but it’s crucial to be able to tell when those agendas are malicious or likely to cause you unintended harm. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators have many identifiable behavioral and character traits, some of which we will discuss in this chapter. With the information you learn here, you will be able to tell whether or not a person is a manipulator, whether or not his/her brand of manipulation is meant to cause you harm, and what kind of manipulator he/she is.  
 


 
 
 


 
Here are the character and behavioral traits that you ought to look out for if you suspect that someone is a manipulator.  
 


 
 
 


 
Lying by the commission and lying by omission
 
 


 
A lie of commission is what's called a "classic lie." When someone says something that they know is not factual, then that is a lie of commission. In other words, a lie of commission is something that is simply untrue. It involves purposefully telling someone something with the intention of deceiving them. It is extremely deliberate, and its main purpose is to gain a personal advantage in a given situation.  
 


 
 
 


 
Lying by the commission isn’t always done with malicious intent, but people who are more comfortable telling outright lies are more likely to be manipulators. Everyone lies. Even seemingly innocent young children will tell a lie of commission to get out of trouble; a child with jam on his face will deny touching it because he is trying to evade the consequences of telling the truth, not because he is malicious. 
 


 
 
 


 
When you spend time with a manipulator, you will notice that he lies all the time out of habit, even when the situation doesn’t necessitate it. Narcissists will lie because they want you to think highly of them, while sadists will lie to cause you pain. Lies of the commission may seem pointless to you in specific situations, but they always have a certain value for the manipulator, even if you aren’t able to see it. 
 


 
 
 


 
Lying by omission is also known as "exclusionary detailing." It involves telling the truth but leaving out certain specific details. It may also involve failing to correct certain misconceptions that one is aware of. Lies of omission are more sophisticated than lies of commission because they give the person a loophole in case they are caught on the lie. Even in legal situations, it’s possible to get away with lies of omission, because you can always argue that the person asking the questions wasn’t specific enough about what details they wanted you to give. 
 


 
 
 


 
The first and most common instance of lying by omission is the kind that involves leaving out details. The best example of such a lie is when a salesperson talks about the positive aspects of a product but fails to mention its negative aspects. Manipulators can use lies of omission to control the way people react in certain situations. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, when a malicious person reports to you what a mutual friend said about you in an earlier conversation, they may choose to mention the details that are likely to breed animosity between you and your friend but leave out the redeeming details. If someone said three things about you; two compliments and one critical comment, the malicious person will report the critical comment to you and deliberately fail to mention the two positive comments.
 


 
 
 


 
Failing to correct misconceptions is a less common kind of lie of omission, and it’s mostly used by diabolical Machiavellians and psychopaths. This is where a person lets you believe a certain thing even when they know it’s not true. For example, if you blame yourself for a situation that the other person knows isn’t your fault, they’ll let you keep believe it because it benefits them. Experienced manipulators may say things or act in ways that lead you to arrive at a certain false conclusion, and when you get there, they let you keep believing it. 
 


 
 
 


 
Lying by omission can be used to trick or confuse people into making assumptions that benefit manipulators. Manipulators understand that the human mind tends to jump to conclusions, so they often use cues that lead you to those conclusions. Conmen use this technique all the time to gain the trust of unsuspecting victims. For example, if you are sitting in the hospital waiting room and someone walks up to you wearing a lab coat, you will assume that the person is a doctor even before he starts talking to you. In that case, you would have come to a reasonable conclusion based on the context. Manipulators know that you have the inclination to do that so they'll create the right context to make you jump to the conclusion that they want. Once you are at that conclusion, they'll let you keep believing it, and they’ll exploit you.  
 


 
 
 


 
Denial
 
 


 
When you say that someone is in denial, it often means that they are having a difficult time accepting reality. However, denial takes on a whole deferent meaning where manipulators are concerned. Manipulators use denial to feign innocence when they know full well that they have done something wrong. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators use denial to control other people’s impressions of who they are and interpretations of the things they did. Some manipulators are so good when it comes to using denial that they are able to get people to start second-guessing themselves. Denial is a crucial behavioral trait in predicting whether or not a person is likely to gaslight you. If in the early stages of a relationship, your partner blatantly denies something you both know to be true, you can rest assured that he is the kind of person who will be gaslighting you for years to come. 
 


 
 
 


 
When manipulators are confronted and put on a spot, they might use denial to save face. This is fairly easy to conceive; the person doesn't want to admit the truth, so they deny it. But with some people with dark personality traits (especial the psychopaths), denial goes beyond that. When ordinary people use denial, do it to deceive you. However, when some disturbed individuals use denial, they do it to deceive both you and themselves. This is a particularly dangerous trait because it could mean the person completely lacks a conscious. For instance, if a person causes you harm, and he denies doing it to get you off his back, that's one thing. But if he denies it because he truly believes there is nothing wrong with what he did, then you are dealing with a dangerous psychopath.
 


 
 
 


 
Denial also indicates that the person you are dealing with is unwilling to change his behavior. In as much as he is manipulating you as he would using other techniques, denial implies that the person feels justified, and he won’t hesitate to do the exact same thing again in the future. 
 


 
 
 


 
They say that accepting a mistake is the first step towards correcting it. If a person can’t accept a mistake he has made, it means he is nowhere near the path to fixing it. If you meet a person (whether at work or in your personal life), and you notice that he habitually denies things about him that are objective facts, it means that you are dealing with a rigid person who would go out of his way to make sure things go his way even if it means refusing to accept the truth.  
 


 
 
 


 
Denial can be a defense mechanism, a manipulation tactic, or a way to avoid taking responsibility. In any case, people who use it can cause serious damage to your psyche, so watch out for them.  
 


 
 
 


 
Rationalization
 


 
Rationalization is similar to making excuses. Manipulative people are very skilled when it comes to concocting narratives that justify the way they treat other people. When you confront a manipulator, even with the most damning accusation, he will come up with a well-thought-out and rather convincing explanation for his actions. When ordinary people rationalize or make excuses for their actions, you get the sense that even though they are trying to assuage their conscience, they feel guilty and they are even apologetic about what they have done. However, when manipulators rationalize their actions, they are trying to manage the way you perceive them, and they feel justified in their actions.  
 


 
 
 


 
Most people use rationalization as a defense mechanism, or to make the actions they have done or are about to do seems morally tolerable. Whenever rationalization is used, there is a certain “leap” that is taken by the person who is using it. The larger the leap, the higher the person is likely to score when tested for dark psychological traits. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, a person who rationalizes taking $20 from the office petty cash box for personal use may be a bit narcissistic, but a person who rationalizes embezzling $20 million from the company retirement accounts may have extremely high levels of narcissism, Machiavellianism or even psychopathy. Like with all other traits that are common in the entire population, the motivation behind the rationalization has a bearing on whether or not the person doing it has malicious intentions. 
 


 
 
 


 
When you encounter someone who rationalizes things that are clearly wrong, you have to examine what it is they are rationalizing to tell how they feel about certain principles. Even if you are having a hypothetical conversation with someone, you can learn a lot about their attitudes towards certain things by the way they rationalize them. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, if you confront someone you’ve just met who behaves in a belligerent way, and he consistently comes up with ways to excuse that behavior, it could mean that he is the kind of person who believes in the principle that bullying is acceptable. It means that it’s just a matter of time before he turns around and starts bullying you. 
 


 
 
 


 
If you are in a new relationship, you should take a keen interest in the things your partner is willing to justify. One thing many people fail to understand is that if you hear someone close to you justify something and you don’t object to it on principle, it registers in his mind that you are okay with it, and it becomes part of your social contract with him. That means that a person who rationalizes small things won’t hesitate to rationalize bigger things if the same basic principle applies.
 


 
 
 


 
Minimization
 
 


 
Minimization involves trivializing a person’s emotions or actions for the purposes of manipulation. It often combines elements of denial and rationalization; it’s somewhere in between those two characteristics. When a manipulative person can’t completely deny something, and he can’t completely rationalize it either, he will settle for minimizing it. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators downplay the significance of certain events or emotions all the time. The emotions or actions that they downplay could either be yours, theirs, or those of a third party, as long as it serves their purposes. 
 


 
 
 


 
If you have accomplished something significant, a manipulative person may try to belittle or to discount that achievement. A narcissistic person may try to make your contribution to a team effort seem like its "no big deal," even if it was pivotal to the success of a project you are working on together.
 


 
 
 


 
In a relationship, your partner may trivialize your emotions and make them seem insignificant. If you react emotionally to something they have done or said, they may say that you are too sensitive, and you are making a big deal out of nothing, or that you are immature. Both male and female manipulators can have this character trait. A man could say that a woman is a "drama queen" for "overreacting" and a woman could accuse a man of being "unmanly" for expressing strong emotions.  
 


 
 
 


 
Minimization often works on people because it makes them feel self-conscious. If someone accuses you of blowing things out of proportion, you are likely to take a step back to see if you are overreacting. 
 


 
 
 


 
Abusers also use minimization to make it seem as though their actions aren’t as harmful as the victim claims. A physically abusive spouse could say that he "didn't hit you that hard" and an emotionally abusive one could get a rise out of you and then say that you are "just being a big baby." In both cases, the person minimizes the harm they have caused by arguing that it could have been much worse. In their minds, they think they deserve credit for holding back.  
 


 
 
 


 
Another common aspect of minimization is called "cognitive distortion." This is where a person minimizes certain actions or emotions by making it seem as though they are not that important, or by trying to reduce the perception of the impact of those emotions and actions. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, a person may insult or taunt you, but when you confront him about it, he may try to say that it was just a joke and that you should get a sense of humor. Cognitive distortion also happens at institutional levels. For example, institutions that have systemic problems always claim that they have “a few bad apples” instead of acknowledging that there is a big-picture problem that needs to be addressed. 
 


 
 
 


 
You should be very careful with people who use minimization in manipulation because this behavior has a tendency of escalating.
 


 
 
 


 
Diversion and Evasion
 
 


 
Evasion and diversion are used by manipulators to keep the spotlight away from their manipulative behavior. These tactics also help them to avoid being exposed for who they are, and they keep them from having to take responsibility for what they are doing. 
 


 
 
 


 
Evasion involves providing rambling or irrelevant feedback in a situation that demands direct responses. When manipulative people are asked direct questions, they start talking about vaguely related things that aren’t even relevant to the conversation. 
 


 
 
 


 
A person who uses evasion will try to avoid giving a straight answer to a question that you have asked them. On the other hand, a person who uses diversion will change the topic or steer the conversation in a whole other direction. Diversion involves avoiding a topic by bringing up a different topic, especially one that is likely to spark outrage. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, if you are in a relationship and you ask your partner a question about why they have come home late, the evasive ones will start talking in detail about random topics such as things that happened at work, which have nothing to do with what you want to know. The person who uses diversion, on the other hand, will bring up an unresolved issue, and they may even try to turn things around on you. Instead of telling your where he was, he will reignite an argument you had put on hold, and a few minutes later, you will find yourself arguing about your mother, with no idea how the conversation got there. 
 


 
 
 


 
Politicians use diversion and evasion all the time when they don’t want to address certain issues, and they would rather have the public outraged about something else. Politicians are very masterful when it comes to turning any line of questioning into a discussion about a talking point that they have. There are also other professions where evasion and diversion are considered useful techniques. Lawyers and PR managers use it to keep their clients from being closely scrutinized in public. 
 


 
 
 


 
Evasion and diversion mostly work on victims who have problems being assertive. When a manipulator finds that you keep insisting on getting a straight answer despite his best efforts to avoid providing it, he may resort to other techniques.
 


 
 
 


 
Evasion and diversion are clear signs of deception. They often mean that the person is hiding something, and he doesn’t want to go on record, so he goes out of his way to avoid giving a real answer to your question.
 


 
 
 


 
Covert intimidation and guilt tripping
 


 
Covert intimidation and guilt tripping use the same underlying principle; they prey on a person’s emotions. Covert intimidation preys on fear, while guilt tripping preys on compassion. People who use these techniques have what psychologists refer to as covert-aggressive personalities. They are "wolves in sheep's clothing." They present one face to the world, while deep within, they are very malicious people.  
 


 
 
 


 
Covert intimidation involves threatening victims in subtle ways. It can be used by people who are close to you if they understand your fears or desires. Your boss could use covert intimidation to get you to do his bidding at work. If he knows that you are working towards a promotion, he could ask you to do him certain favors, and then imply that your promotion is dependent on that favor. He may not say it directly, but it’s all going to be in the subtext. 
 


 
 
 


 
If you are afraid of ending up alone, an abusive partner may play on that fear to manipulate you. For example, if you want to break up with someone who is emotionally selfish, he could keep implying that you will never meet someone else and that he is your only chance of not being lonely.  
 


 
 
 


 
Guilt tripping is used by manipulators to get people to doubt themselves, to be anxious, to revere the manipulators, or to do certain favors for the manipulators. People can guilt trip you by making themselves appear like victims, or by making you appear to be selfish. When you are accused of being selfish, you are likely to go out of your way to prove that you are not, and manipulative people can take advantage of this. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, if you are dating someone and she wants you to buy her something expensive, or to do her a favor that is going to cost you, you'll try to explain as plainly as possible that you are unable to do it. She may then say something like, "you just don't care about me enough." When she says this, even the most rational argument you make won’t matter. There is a bottom-line in place here; that you value keeping your money more than you value her happiness. Guilt trips work because they are not based on objective reasoning; they are based on emotions (which are more primal and rank higher in the hierarchy of brain functions). 
 


 
 
 


 
When you care about someone, and you feel a sense of obligation towards them, then they have the power to take you on a guilt trip. That means that for a manipulator to guilt-trip you, they are going to make sure that you have some emotional connection with them. If you are in a new relationship, you should watch out to see if your partner likes to take his/her friends and family members on guilt trips, because it could mean that you will be subjected to the same treatment once you are emotionally involved.
 


 
 
 


 
Shaming
 
 


 
Shame refers to the uncomfortable feeling of distress or humiliation, which results when we are conscious of certain behavior that we consider to be wrong or foolish. The thing to understand about shame is that it’s a social construct, and it’s highly subjective. 
 


 
 
 


 
You’d feel shame if the wind blew up your skirt in a public place, but there are remote tribes of people and even communes in Western societies where people walk around naked. The point is that most shameful things are only shameful because we perceive them as such. Manipulators can use shame against you by either convincing you to be ashamed of something that you weren’t, or by revealing (or threatening to reveal) your secrets to people who revere you. 
 


 
 
 


 
Traditionally, shaming is used as a deterrent to make people adhere to social contracts or to teach children the proper way to behave.  Malicious people shame people in many different ways, often to their own benefit. They shame people by calling them names, expressing disgust in response to others' ideas, emotions, and behavior, using sarcasm, rolling their eyes, or exposing their secrets. 
 


 
 
 


 
A malicious person shames others to bring them down and to elevate themselves. They can do this because they want to distract people from their own inadequacies. A sadist may shame you because he enjoys it when you are uncomfortable. A narcissist may shame you just to show others that he is smarter than you. A Machiavellian may shame you because he wants to modify your behavior to his advantage. 
 


 
 
 


 
Shaming is somewhat similar to guilt-tripping, but shaming tends to play out in the public arena. Shaming works more effectively when there are people whose opinion you value who are involved. Malicious people know that there are certain things you don't want people to find out about you, even if you are comfortable with them in principle. "Slut shaming" is one example. "Revenge porn" is an even more extreme example. When you are in a relationship with a malicious person, and you try to get out of it, they may use these techniques to either get you to stay or to punish you for leaving them.
 


 
 
 


 
Vilifying the victim
 
 


 
Manipulators, especially Machiavellians, tend to be smart and devious, so they can easily find ways to vilify their victims. There are two ways that this can happen; they can either convince other people that the victim is the real aggressor, or they can convince the victim that he/she is the one who did something wrong. Vilifying the victim involves using several tactics, including rationalizing, and gaslighting. 
 


 
 
 


 
People who vilify victims try to justify their actions by making it seem as though the victims are the "bad guys." For example, someone who cheats on his spouse may explain his behavior away by telling people that his spouse is a "bitch," or she is "frigid" and "controlling." The manipulator is trying to rationalize his actions here by creating the impression that whatever he may have done, the person he did it too, had it coming, and she probably deserved worse. 
 


 
 
 


 
You can tell if a person you have started seeing has a tendency to blame the victim by assessing the way he/she talks about his/her past relationships. If he blames everything that went wrong on his ex and takes no responsibility whatsoever for his role in what happened, you can be certain that he’ll approach your relationship the same way.  
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative people know deep within that they are responsible for the things that go wrong, but to them, vilifying the victim is just another way to be deceptive and to control the way people perceive them. If they are vilifying you, they want you to take responsibility for their actions so that they can dominate you. 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists tend to believe that they are superior to other people, and when they vilify the victim, they may truly believe that its within their right to take advantage of you however they can; it’s not that they don’t know they are taking advantage of you, they just think that you are subservient to them and that’s just the natural order of things.
 


 
 
 


 
Playing the victim role, and playing the servant role
 


 
When manipulators play the role of the victim, in actual sense, they never really see themselves as victims. It’s just a game for them, and the point is to avoid responsibility while getting the benefits that come with sympathy. They want to be perceived as weak people who are suffering, emotionally wounded, or even physically injured for the purposes of eliciting sympathy or managing impressions.  
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators try to convince their victims that they are the ones who are suffering in one way or another. If the victim is invested in the manipulator’s welfare, he/she may decide to offer help, often at a high personal cost. 
 


 
 
 


 
You should be extremely cautious if you realize that you are dealing with a person who likes to play the victim because you never know how far they may go. If someone plays the victim in any dynamic, someone else has to be cast as a victimizer, and if the manipulator is good at it, he/she could come up with a very well-constructed narrative that could irreversibly ruin your reputation or even put you in legal jeopardy. 
 


 
 
 


 
If someone you are dating plays the victim when the two of you are together, it might be possible to deal with the issue by seeking counseling. However, if you notice that he/she is selling that narrative to other people, you should try to get out of that relationship as fast as possible before the lie escalates and everyone turns against you. 
 


 
 
 


 
Playing the servant role refers to a manipulative trait where a person pretends to be doing something for a noble cause or to serve someone else when they are actually cloaking a self-serving agenda. This is common in Machiavellians and psychopaths, but not so much in narcissists.
 


 
 
 


 
A Machiavellian may pretend to be on your side, and he may offer to do your bidding. He may even give you plenty of reasons to trust him, and you may let him in and give him access to your resources. Sooner or later, he will reveal his true intentions; often time, it could be that he has a desire for power or control, and to him, you are just in the way. Machiavellians are good at hiding their ambitions, but when the opportunity arises, they'll strike, and they'll exert their dominance over you. 
 


 
 
 


 
There are manipulators who get into leadership positions by playing the servant role. They then go on to use those leadership positions for personal enrichment, or for their own agendas. You may have heard of people who start charities and prey on conscientious and well-meaning people to collect donations, which they proceed to embezzle. 
 


 
 
 


 
Seduction
 
 


 
Seduction is an integral part of romance and courtship, but it can also be a very effective manipulation tactic if a person has malicious intentions. We all want to be liked and to be valued, so when someone says flattering things about us, we are likely to believe them. Seduction is one of the first manipulation techniques that most manipulators will deploy when they meet you for the first time. As we have mentioned several times already, manipulation techniques tend to be more effective when the manipulator and the victim have some sort of emotional connection; seduction is the first step towards establishing that connection. 
 


 
 
 


 
Seduction and flattery are insidious ways of managing impressions when manipulators want to conceal their true intentions. When someone gives you attention, you feel special and flattered, and you let your guard down, allowing him to come in and take advantage of you. We all have some level of narcissism inside of us, so when someone flatters us, we rarely stop to think that maybe they have an ulterior motive and that the flattery has nothing to do with us.  
 


 
 
 


 
Even when people are aware that they are being buttered up, they often let it happen, and they don’t put a stop to it. They start off by assuming that they are immune to the manipulator’s charms, and they tell themselves that they are indulging the person just for fun, but before they realize it, the end up actually falling for the trick and becoming emotionally invested in the manipulator. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators don't pull any stops when they are seducing their victims. They present themselves very well, and they use every trick in the book to win over their victims. Depending on the manipulator's dominant dark trait, after getting what they want, they may either reveal their true nature, or they may continue to make efforts to conceal it. By the time the victim knows what’s going on, it would probably be too late.
 


 
 
 


 
Projecting the blame
 


 
Playing the blame game is one of the most defining characteristics of manipulators. They like to project blame on others because it keeps others from blaming them, and as a result, they are able to avoid taking responsibility for their actions. Projecting blame on a person forces him to go on the defensive, and this serves as a distraction. 
 


 
 
 


 
Such people always claim that it was another person or a circumstance that caused them to do something wrong. Psychologists call this tactic "projection." In ordinary people, projection is an automatic mental behavior that is well documented in research concerning psychodynamic psychology. People can unconsciously project their intentions, motivations, or actions on others if they are feeling guilty or unnerved under the prevailing circumstances. However, after that initial subconscious reaction, most people will do the logical thing and admit to themselves that the projection is mistaken. 
 


 
 
 


 
People with dark personality traits, on the other hand, will stick with the projection even if they know that they are the ones who are truly responsible for a negative outcome. Sadists will not only project their mistakes onto you, but they will also go out of their way to make you feel bad about it.  
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists, Machiavellians, and psychopaths are especially good at projecting blame on others because they don't feel guilt and shame the way most people do. When an ordinary person projects blame on someone else, he will have to deal with a high level of cognitive dissonance, which means that he would be torn up inside. Manipulators, on the other hand, will rationalize their projections; for example, Machiavellians will just see it as a means to an end.
 


 
 
 


 
The more tactful manipulators can pass blame in a more subtle way by spreading it around rather than just projecting it onto one entity. For example, when they do something wrong, and you call them out on it, they will bring to your attention a whole list of "contributing circumstances" with the intention of obscuring or minimizing their role in creating the problem under discussion. 
 


 
 
 


 
Brandishing anger
 
 


 
Malicious people use anger to manipulate people all the time. When someone brandishes anger at you, they may yell, or use threatening gestures, spit out harsh words, or react in totally unpredictable ways. People’s emotions have an effect on how we act and react in specific situations, so manipulative people can strategically deploy anger to control the way you react. It could be that they want you to be afraid of them so that you refrain from asking prying questions. No one wants to be yelled at, so if someone is angry at you, it incentivizes you to drop the issue you are raising. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative people also brandish anger to convey fake moral outrage in order to portray themselves as innocent in the face of damning accusations. For example, if you suspect your partner of cheating on you and confront him about it, if he is manipulative, he may react very angrily to show you that he is outraged that you would even ask him about such a thing.
 


 
 
 


 
Brandishing anger also makes manipulative people feel superior to those around them. A boss who yells at his subordinates may be doing it to show that he is in control, that he knows more than everyone else, and that he wants people to do things his way out of fear. Abusive partners do the same thing when they want to put their spouses or girlfriends under their thumbs.  
 


 
 
 


 















Chapter 5: What is Covert Emotional Manipulation?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Covert emotional manipulation is used by people who want to gain power or control over you by deploying tactics that are both deceptive and underhanded. Such people want to change the way you think and behave without you ever realizing what it is they are doing. In other words, they use techniques that can alter your perceptions in such a way that you think that you are doing it out of your own free will. Covert emotional manipulation is “covert” because it works without you being consciously aware of that fact. People who are good at deploying such techniques can get you to do their bidding without your knowledge; they can hold you “psychologically captive."
 


 
 
 


 
When skilled manipulators set their sights on you, they can get you to grant them power over your own emotional well-being and even your self-worth. They will put you under their spell without you ever realizing it. They will win your trust, and you will start attaching value to what they think of you. Once you have let them into your life, they will then start chipping away at your very identity in a methodical way, and as time goes by you will lose your self-esteem and turn into whatever they want you to be. 
 


 
 
 


 
Covert emotional manipulation is actually more common than you might think. Since it's subtle, people are rarely aware that it’s happening to them, and in some cases, they may never even notice. Only keen outside observers may be able to tell when this form of manipulation is going on. 
 


 
 
 


 
You might know someone who used to be fun and jovial, then she got into a relationship with someone else, and a few years down the line, she seems to have a completely different personality. If it’s an old friend, you might not even recognize the person she has become. That is how powerful covert emotional manipulation can be. It can completely overhaul someone’s personality without them even realizing it. The manipulator will chip away at you little by little, and you will accept minute changes that fly under the radar, until the old you are replaced by a different version of you, build to be subservient to the manipulator. 
 


 
 
 


 
Covert emotional manipulation works like a slow-moving coup. It requires you to make small progressive concessions to the person that is trying to manipulate you. In other words, you let go of tiny aspects of your identity to accommodate the manipulative person, so it never registers in your mind that there is something bigger at play. 
 


 
 
 


 
When the manipulative person pushes you to change in small ways, you will comply because you don't want to "sweat the small stuff." However, there is a domino effect that occurs as you start conceding to the manipulative person. You will be more comfortable making subsequent concessions, and your personality will be erased and replaced in a cumulative progression. 
 


 
 
 


 
Covert emotional manipulation occurs to some extent in all social dynamics. Let’s look at how it plays out in romantic relationships, in friendships, and at work. 
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation in relationships
 
 


 
There is a lot of emotional manipulation that takes place in romantic relationships, and it’s not always malicious. For example, women try to modify men’s behavior to make them more “housebroken"; that is just normal. However, there are certain instances of manipulation where the person's intention is clearly malicious, and he/she is motivated by a need to control or dominate over the other person. 
 


 
 
 


 
Positive reinforcement is perhaps the most used covert manipulation technique in romantic relationships. Your partner can get you to do what he wants by praising your, flattering you, giving you attention, offering your gifts, and acting in an affectionate way. 
 


 
 
 


 
Even the seemingly nice things in relationships can turn out to be covert manipulation tools and props. For instance, your girlfriend could use intense sex as a weapon to reinforce a certain kind of behavior in you. Similarly, men can use charm, appreciation, or gifts to reinforce certain behaviors in the women they are dating.  
 


 
 
 


 
Some sophisticated manipulators use what psychologists call “intermittent positive reinforcement” to gain control over their partners. The way it works is that the perpetrator will shower the victim with intense positive reinforcement for a certain period of time, then switch to just giving her normal levels of attention and appreciations. After a random interval of time, he will again go back to the intense positive reinforcement. When the victim gets used to the special treatment, it’s taken away, and when she gets used to normal treatment, the special treatment is brought back, and it all seems arbitrary. Now, the victim will get to a place where she becomes sort of “addicted” to the special treatment, but she has no idea how to get it, so she starts doing whatever the perpetrator wants in the hope that one of the things she does will bring back the intense positive reinforcement. In other words, she effectively becomes subservient to the perpetrator. 
 


 
 
 


 
Negative reinforcement techniques are also used in relationships to manipulate others covertly. For example, partners can withhold sex as a way of compelling the other person to modify their behavior in a specific way. People also use techniques such as the silent treatment, and withholding of love and affection. 
 


 
Some malicious people can create a false sense of intimacy by pretending to open up to you. They could share personal stories and talk about their hopes and fears. When they do this, they create the impression that they trust you, but their intention may be to get you to feel a sense of obligation towards them. 
 


 
Manipulators also use well-calculated insinuations to get you to react in a certain way at the moment, with the aim of modifying your behavior in the long run. Such insinuations can be made through words or even actions. In colloquial terms, we call this "dropping a hint." People in relationships are always trying to figure out what the other person wants out of that relationship, so a manipulative person can drop hints to get you to do what they want without ever having to take responsibility for the actions that you take because they can always argue that you misinterpreted what they meant.  
 


 
 
 


 
Dropping hints isn’t always malicious (for example, if your girlfriend wants you to propose, she may leave bridal magazines out on the table).  However, malicious insinuations can be very hurtful, and they can chip away at your self-esteem. Your partner can insinuations to suggest you are gaining weight, you aren’t making enough money, or even to suggest that your cooking skills aren’t any good. People use insinuations to get away with "saying without saying," any number of hurtful things that could affect your self-esteem. 
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulations in friendships
 
 


 
Covert emotional manipulation is quite common in friendships and casual relationships. Friendships tend to progress slower than romantic relationships, but that just means that it can take a lot more time for you to figure out if your friends are manipulative. Manipulation in friendships can be confusing because even well-meaning friends can come across as malicious. That's because there is a certain social rivalry that exists between even the closest of friends, which explain the concept of "frenemies."  
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative friends tend to be passive-aggressive. This is where they manipulate you into doing what they want by involving mutual friends rather than by coming to you directly. Passive aggression works as a manipulation technique because it denies you a chance of directly addressing whatever issue your friend is raising, and so in a manner of speaking, you lose by default. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, if a friend wants you to do her a favor, instead of coming out and asking you, she goes to a mutual friend and suggests that she asks you on her behalf. Now, when the mutual friend approaches you, it becomes very difficult for you to turn down the request because there is added social pressure. When you say no, your whole social circle now perceives you as selfish. 
 


 
 
 


 
Passive aggression can also involve the use of silent treatment to get you to comply with a request. Imagine a situation where one of your friends talks to everyone else but you. It’s going to be incredibly awkward for you, and everyone will start prying, wondering what the issue is between the two of you, and taking sides on the matter. 
 


 
 
 


 
Friends can also covertly manipulate you by using subtle insults. They can give you back-handed compliments which have hidden meanings. When you take the time to really think about what they meant by the compliment, you will realize that it’s an insult in disguise, and that will bruise your self-esteem, and possibly modify your behavior. 
 


 
 
 


 
Some friends can manipulate you by going on a “power trip” and trying to control your social interactions. For example, there are those friends who are going to insist that every time you hang out, it should be in their apartment, or at a social venue of their choosing. Such friends often have the intention of dominating your friendship, so they are keen to always have the “home ground advantage” over you. They’ll try to push you out of your comfort zone, just so that you can reveal your weaknesses and you can then become more emotionally reliant on them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative friends tend to excessively capitalize on your friendship, and to a disproportionate degree. They will ask you for lots of favors with no regard for your time or your effort. They are the kinds of friends who will leverage your friendship every time they need something, but then make excuses when it’s their turn to reciprocate. 
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation at work
 
 


 
There are many reasons why your colleague may want to manipulate you. It could be you are on the same career path, and so he wants to make you look bad. It could be that he is lazy and he wants to stick you with his responsibilities. It could also be that he is a sadist and he just wants to see you suffer. 
 


 
 
 


 
One-way people at work exert their dominance over others is by stressing them out and then, almost immediately, relieving the stress. Say, for example, you make a minor error on a report, and your boss calls you into his office. He makes a big fuss and threatens to fire you, but then towards the end, he switches gears and reassures you that your job is secure as long as you do what he wants. That kind of manipulation works on people because it makes them afraid and gives them a sense of obligation at the same time. 
 


 
 
 


 
Some colleagues can manipulate you by doing you small favors, and then reminding you of those favors every time they want something from you. For instance, if you made an error at work and a colleague covered for you, he may hold it over your head for months or even years to come, and he is going to guilt you into feeling indebted to him. 
 


 
 
 


 
Colleagues can also manipulate you by leaving you out of the loop when they are passing across important information. The intention here is to get you to mess up so that they can have a better standing with the boss or with other colleagues. When you discover that someone is leaving you out of the loop at work and you confront them, they could feign innocence and pretend that it was a genuine mistake on their part, or they could find a way to turn it around and blame you. 
 


 
 
 


 
People with dark personality traits tend to be hyper-competitive at work, and they won’t hesitate to use underhanded means to pull one over you. Most colleagues turn out to be good friends, but you should be careful with colleagues that are overly eager to befriend you. It could be that they want to learn more about you so that they can figure out your strengths and weaknesses, and find ways to use them against you. Narcissist, Machiavellians, and psychopaths are very good at scheming at work, so don’t let them catch you off guard. 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 

















Chapter 6: What are the Manipulators Trying to do?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
You may wonder; what are manipulators trying to do? Why do they put so much work into manipulating others, instead of just focusing on improving themselves?
 


 
 
 


 
The fact is that manipulators have a deep-seated psychological need to control others, so they seek to "weaken" their victims in order to gain dominance over them. When they manipulate others, they are trying to cancel their willpower, to destroy their self-esteem, to seek passive-aggressive revenge against them, or to confuse their reality so that they become more malleable. Let’s look at how and why manipulators do those four things. 
 


 
 
 


 
Cancellation of willpower
 
 


 
It’s because of our willpower that we are able to retain control over our lives and to resist people’s attempts to dominate us and force us to do their bidding. That is why one of the primary intentions of manipulative people is to obliterate our willpower. 
 


 
 
 


 
So, how can someone take away your willpower? Well, first, you have to understand that willpower isn’t unlimited. We can lose our will power through a process that psychologists refer to as "ego depletion." To understand this, you have to think of willpower as a resource that may be renewable, but it can only be renewed at a slow pace. So, if we spend that resource on one thing, we have less of it to spend on another thing that demands it. So, ego depletion is the outcome that occurs when we spend all the willpower that we have, and we are left without adequate willpower in the face of subsequent challenges. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative people know that willpower doesn’t come from a bottomless pit, so they tend to overload us with scenarios where we are forced to use our willpower until that willpower gets depleted. For example, a malicious person may keep trying to agitate you, while you keep trying to stay calm and keep your cool. However, if he keeps doing it for a prolonged period of time, chances are you will get to a point where you snap and react with anger. 
 


 
 
 


 
Psychologists believe that willpower is sort of like a muscle; it gets stronger when you exercise it, but during the moment of exertion, it can fail if it’s pushed past a certain point. Malicious people can cancel your willpower by forcing you to overexert it. 
 


 
 
 


 
Willpower is what’s makes it possible for us to make the right decisions in the face of serious temptation or pressure. It’s what makes us spend time studying for an exam instead of watching videos online. Without willpower, we become highly suggestible, and people can get us to do their bidding with little resistance. 
 


 
 
 


 
Ego depletion is sometimes also referred to as "decision fatigue." The idea behind this concept is that the more decisions we make, the more fatigued we become, and as a result, we are unable to make good decisions. When manipulative people put us in situations where we have to keep making decisions, they eventually are able to wear us out.  
 


 
 
 


 
There are several other factors that have been known to destroy willpower. The first one is scarcity. When something is scarce, we are tempted to act in a more impulsive way to acquire it, abandoning our principles in the process. For instance, when you are hungry, you might be forced to abandon the “thou shalt not steal” principle just to feed yourself. 
 


 
 
 


 
People who are adept at emotional manipulation can chip away at your willpower by introducing the element of scarcity. For example, when a person gives you the silent treatment, she is essentially withholding human interaction and affection, thus making it a scarcity for you. This increases the likelihood that you will abandon your stand and comply with her request. 
 


 
 
 


 
Another way to cancel someone’s willpower is by threatening their wellbeing or their livelihood. Malicious people can compromise your willpower by doing things that jeopardize your job, your relationships, or your happiness. When a colleague does something that puts your job security in jeopardy, or if your partner does something that makes your life a living hell, you will become somewhat desperate, and at that moment, your willpower is more likely to be compromised leading you to either surrender or do something that is detrimental to you. 
 


 
 
 


 
Stress is another factor that can cause the depletion of one's willpower. When we are constantly stressed, our minds are filled with worries that cloud our judgment, and we end up making bad decisions. Malicious people will work both overtly and covertly to introduce stressors into our lives in the hope that the resultant stress will take up all our energy, and we will be left more susceptible to their manipulation.
 


 
 
 


 
When manipulators succeed in canceling our willpower, then they gain the power to control us and tell us what to do. We will start deferring our judgment to them, and we will lose our identities.   
 


 
 
 


 
Destroy self-esteem
 
 


 
Apart from depleting your willpower, malicious people also want to destroy your self-esteem. Unfortunately, there have dozens of different ways that they can do this. In as much as we try to draw our self-esteem from within, the fact remains that as social beings, we put a lot of stock in what other people say about us, and that is where manipulative people draw their strength. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators can chip away at your self-esteem by using carefully worded phrases that are aimed at attacking and belittling you. Their words are usually carefully calculated to either upset you or to confuse you so that you spend a lot of time thinking about what they mean. We have already looked at the kinds of manipulative techniques that can cause you to start questioning yourself or thinking that your own emotions aren’t valid. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators also chip away at your self-esteem by constantly blaming you for all sorts of problems. When someone keeps telling you that certain things are your fault, a seed of self-doubt will start growing in you, and as this idea is reinforced, you will get to a point where you start actually internalizing the person’s criticism, and this ruins your self-esteem. 
 


 
 
 


 
Sometimes, manipulative people can pass the blame onto you without even saying a word. When something bad happens, they’ll give you a look that says everything you need to know about how they feel, and even in the absence of an accusation, you will start questioning yourself. 
 


 
 
 


 
Another way manipulative people destroy your self-esteem is by flooding you with negative information. We all know that self-esteem can be affected by the company we keep. If we surround ourselves with negative people, and they keep saying bad things, we start internalizing those things. Manipulative people, especially Machiavellians, can dupe us by feeding us negative information. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, a colleague at work could keep pouring cold water on all your ideas until you get to a point where you start believing that you can’t get things done.  In relationships, manipulators can destroy your self-esteem by neglecting you emotionally, until you start thinking that you don’t deserve love and affection. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative people can also destroy your self-esteem by feeding your fears. Once they discover that you have certain fears, they’ll start nurturing those fears in you so that they can use them against you. The more afraid we are, the more our self-esteem diminishes. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative people like it when their victims have low self-esteem for a lot of reasons. You have probably heard the saying that if you don't stand for something, you will fall for anything. That is what manipulators are counting on here. They know that if you don't have a strong view of yourself, they can gain the power to control how you view yourself. If you start doubting who you are, they'll take over and create a version of you that they can push around.  
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators also know that when we have low self-esteem, we become very agreeable because we want to please other people so as to gain some positive attention and to win the approval of others. They want their victims to turn into people-pleasers, and they want to put themselves at the center of the victims’ lives so that they are the ones benefiting from it. 
 


 
 
 


 
At work, manipulators may want to destroy your self-esteem to make you feel like you are not up to the job so that they can climb over you on their way to the top. If they can’t completely convince you that that you are a loser, they’ll settle for making you so afraid of failure that you are even unable to gather the strength to try to compete with them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators may also want to destroy your self-esteem so that you are unable to maintain your personal boundaries, and they can get in and take advantage of you. Like we have mentioned, when your self-esteem is destroyed, you are unable to stand up for what you believe in, so you can’t enforce your principles. You may feel like you don’t even have the basic right to assert your preferences, so manipulators will be at liberty to walk all over you. 
 


 
 
 


 
Passive-aggressive revenge
 
 


 
Some manipulators will go after you because they are seeking passive-aggressive revenge against you. If you have ever slighted a narcissistic person, a sadist, or a psychopath in any way, they are probably holding some sort of grudge against you, and they may manipulate you because they want to get even.
 


 
 
 


 
Now, normal people hold grudges or go after each other for clear reasons that both parties are aware of. However, people with dark personality traits can target you for pretty much any reason, as long as it makes sense to them. There is no logical threshold that you have to meet for them to set their sights on you. They could hold a grudge for years because of a statement that you made in passing. They could make you their target because your boss complimented you instead of them. They could even target you because of deep psychological issues that even they cannot comprehend. 
 


 
 
 


 
For instance, a psychopath may seek to victimize you and destroy your life because you look like the girl who rejected him way back when he was a teenager. The point is you don’t have to do anything specific for a malicious person to decide to seek passive-aggressive revenge against you. It’s possible that you just have the misfortune of reminding them of a mean parent they had growing up, or in the case of Machiavellians, it could just be that you are on their way and they have to destroy you to get ahead. It could also be that they think you are weak, and therefore, you are an easy target for them.
 


 
 
 


 
When someone is seeking passive-aggressive revenge against you, they'll want to put you down so that they can feel superior. They think that you have it good, so they want to cut you down to size by making you feel insecure. If you outperform them at work, they'll want your performance to decline because it will make them feel better. Such people will treat you with a lot of disguised verbal hostility. They will propagate negative gossip about you when you are away. They will go out of their way to find fault in the things that you do, and they will be habitually critical of you. They’ll try their best to invalidate your thoughts, feeling, and contributions because they just don't want you to be happy.  
 


 
 
 


 
Some people will seek passive-aggressive revenge against you because they are miserable, and misery loves company. Most people with dark personality traits just can’t stand seeing you happy when they are miserable. The narcissists believe the world revolves around them, so if they are miserable, they’ll expect everyone else to be miserable, and they’ll try to punish anyone who isn’t miserable through psychological manipulation. Sadists will try to make you miserable as a way of cheering themselves up. Machiavellians, on the other hand, will scheme to steal your happiness.  
 


 
 
 


 
People seeking passive-aggressive revenge often use disguised hostile humor to bring others down. They use sarcasm to veil their hostility towards others. They'll say hurtful things then claim that they are "just kidding." They'll attack others based on their looks, their social-cultural background, their gender and sexual orientation, their levels of education, and anything else that comes to mind. In other words, these manipulators have deep-seated issues which result in psychological disturbances, and they'll go out of their way to harm others in order to satisfy their psychological needs.  
 


 
 
 


 
Confuse reality
 
 


 
Manipulators also want to confuse your reality so that they can control you. Altering a person’s perception of reality is the ultimate way to control and dominate them. That’s because when you can convince a person that what he sees and hears isn't real, then you gain the power to tell them what they should think, what you should feel, and what you should value.  
 


 
 
 


 
Controlling other people's reality is the ultimate dream for any manipulator. They want you to substitute your judgment for theirs, and the chances of that happening increase exponentially when you question your own reality. That is why mind control manipulation techniques, such as brainwashing and gaslighting, are the most dangerous ones.  
 


 
 
 


 
There are lots of reasons why a manipulator would want to confuse his victim's reality. An abusive partner would want you to quit looking for help, so they would either want you to believe that you are going crazy and the abuse isn’t really happening, or that no one will offer you the love and protection that you are hoping for, so you should stop searching for it.  
 


 
 
 


 
When psychopath’s gaslight others, they tend to do it intentionally. They are deliberately trying to damage their victim's mental health because they know when you are mentally weak, they can control you. They don't have a conscience, so they don't care if they do irreversible damage.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists, on the other hand, tend to gaslight others or confuse their reality unintentionally. That is because the narcissists are themselves delusional; they have delusions of grandeur, and they think that they are entitled to dominate you. They'll confuse your reality because they want to impose their own perceptions onto you so that their delusions of grandeur can become your reality. 
 


 
 
 


 
Bullies and sadists will want to confuse your reality because they want it to be bleak. Their intention is to make you have a pessimistic outlook, just like them.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 



















Chapter 7: Behavioral Traits of Favorite Victims of Manipulators
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
There are certain characteristics and behavioral traits that make people more vulnerable to manipulation, and people with dark psychology traits know this full well. They tend to seek out victims who have those specific behavioral traits because they are essentially easy targets. Let’s discuss 6 of the traits of the favorite victims of manipulators. 
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional insecurity and fragility
 
 


 
Manipulators like to target victims who are emotionally insecure or emotionally fragile. Unfortunately for these victims, such traits are very easy to identify even in total strangers, so it’s easy for experienced manipulators to find them. 
 


 
 
 


 
People who are emotionally insecure tend to be very defensive when they are attacked or when they are under pressure, and that makes them easy to spot in social situations. Even after just a few interactions, a manipulator can gauge with a certain degree of accuracy, how insecure a person is. They’ll try to provoke their potential targets in a subtle way, and then wait to see how the targets react. If they are overly defensive, manipulators will take it as a sign of insecurity, and they will intensify their manipulative attacks.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators can also tell if a target is emotionally insecure if he/she redirects accusations or negative comments. They will find a way to put you on the spot, and if you try to throw it back at them, or to make excuses instead of confronting the situation head-on, the manipulator could conclude that you are insecure and therefore an easy target. 
 


 
 
 


 
People who have social anxiety also tend to have emotional insecurity, and manipulators are aware of this fact. In social gatherings, they can easily spot individuals who have social anxiety, then target them for manipulation. "Pickup artists" are able to identify the girls who seem uneasy in social situations by the way they conduct themselves. Social anxiety is difficult to conceal, especially to manipulators who are experienced at preying on emotional vulnerability.  
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional fragility is different from emotional insecurity. Emotionally insecure people tend to show it all the time, while emotionally fragile people appear to be normal, but they break down emotionally at the slightest provocation.  Manipulators like targeting emotionally fragile people because it’s very easy to elicit a reaction from them. Once a manipulator finds out that you are emotionally fragile, he is going to jump at the change to manipulate you because he knows it would be fairly easy. 
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional fragility can be temporary, so people with these traits are often targeted by opportunistic manipulators. A person may be emotionally stable most of the time, but he/she may experience emotional fragility when they are going through a breakup, when they are grieving, or when they are dealing with a situation that is emotionally draining. The more diabolical manipulators can earn your trust, bid their time, and wait for you to be emotionally fragile. Alternatively, they can use underhanded methods to induce emotional fragility in a person they are targeting. 
 


 
 
 


 
Sensitive people
 
 


 
Highly sensitive people are those individuals who process information at a deeper level and are more aware of the subtleties in social dynamics. They have lots of positive attributes because they tend to be very considerate of others, and they watch their step to avoid causing people any harm, whether directly or indirectly. Such people tend to dislike any form of violence or cruelty, and they are easily upset by news reports about disastrous occurrences, or even depictions of gory scenes in movies. 
 


 
 
 


 
Sensitive people also tend to get emotionally exhausted from taking in other people’s feelings. When they walk into a room, they have the immediate ability to detect other people’s moods, because they are naturally skilled at identifying and interpreting other people’s body language cues, facial expressions, and tonal variations. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators like to target sensitive people because they are easy to manipulate. If you are sensitive to certain things, manipulators can use them against you. They will feign certain emotions to draw sensitive people in so that they can exploit them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Sensitive people also tend to scare easily. They have a heightened "startle reflex," which means that they are more likely to show clear signs of fear or nervousness in potentially threatening situations. For example, sensitive people are more likely to jump up when someone sneaks up on them, even before they determine whether they are in any real danger. If you are a sensitive person, this trait can be very difficult to hide, and malicious people will be able to see it from a mile away. 
 


 
 
 


 
Sensitive people also tend to be withdrawn. They are mostly introverts, and they like to keep to themselves because social stimulation can be emotionally draining for them. Manipulators who are looking to control others are more likely to target people who are introverted because that trait makes it easy to isolate potential victims. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators can also identify sensitive people by listening to how they talk. Sensitive people tend to be very proper; they never use vulgar language, and they tend to be very politically correct because they are trying to avoid offending anyone. They also tend to be polite, and they say please and thank you more often than others. Manipulators go after such people because they know that they are too polite to dismiss them right away; sensitive people will indulge anyone because they don't want to be rude, and that gives maliciously people a way in.  
 


 
 
 


 
Emphatic people
 
 


 
Emphatic people are generally similar to highly sensitive people, except that they are more attuned to the feelings of others and the energy of the world around them. They tend to internalize other people's suffering to the point that it becomes their own. In fact, for some of them, it can be difficult to distinguish someone's discomfort from their own. Emphatic people make the best partners because they feel everything you feel. However, this makes them particularly easy to manipulate, which is why malicious people like to target them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Malicious people can feign certain emotions, and convey those emotions to emphatic people, who will feel them as though they were real. That opens them up for exploitation. Emphatic people are the favorite targets of psychopathic conmen because they feel so deeply for others. A conman can make up stories about financial difficulties and swindle lots of money from emphatic people. 
 


 
 
 


 
The problem with being emphatic is that because you have such strong emotions, you easily dismiss your own doubts about people because you would much rather offer help to a person who turns out to be a lair than deny help to a person who turns out to be telling the truth.  
 


 
 
 


 
Emphatic people have a big-hearts, and they tend to be extremely generous, often to their own detriment. They are highly charitable, and they feel guilty when others around them suffer, even if it’s not their fault and they can’t do anything about it. Malicious people have a very easy time taking such people on guilt trips. They are the kind of people who would willingly fork over their life savings to help their friends get out of debt, even if it means they would be ruined financially.
 


 
 
 


 
Malicious people like to get into relationships with emphatic people because they are easy to take advantage of. Emphatic people try to avoid getting into intimate relationships in the first place because they know that it’s easy for them to get engulfed in such relationships and to lose their identities in the process. However, manipulators will doggedly pursue them because they know that once they get it, they can guilt the emphatic person into doing anything they want.  
 


 
 
 


 
Fear of loneliness
 
 


 
Many people are afraid of being alone, but this fear is more heightened in a small percentage of the population. This kind of fear can be truly paralyzing for those who experience it, and it can open them up to exploitation by malicious people. For example, there are many people who stay in dysfunctional relationships because they are afraid, they will never find someone else to love them if they break up with an abusive partner. Manipulators can identify this fear in a victim, and they'll often do everything they can to fuel it further to make sure that the person is crippled by it. People who are afraid of being alone can tolerate or even rationalize any kind of abuse. 
 


 
 
 


 
The fear of being alone can be easy to spot in a potential victim. People with this kind of fear tend to exude some level of desperation at the beginning of relationships, and they can sometimes come across as clingy. While ordinary people may think of being clingy as a red flag, manipulative people will see it as an opportunity to exploit somebody. If you are attached to them, they’ll use manipulative techniques to make you even more dependent on them. They can withhold love and affection (e.g., by using the silent treatment) to make the victim fear that he/she is about to get dumped so that they act out of desperation and cede more control to the manipulator.
 


 
 
 


 
The fear of being alone is, for the most part, a social construct, and it disproportionately affects women more than men. For generations, our society has taught women that their goal in life is to get married and have children, so, even the more progressive women who reject this social construct are still plagued by social pressures to adhere to those old standards. That being said, the fact is that men also tend to be afraid of being alone.
 


 
 
 


 
People with abandonment issues stemming from childhood tend to experience the fear of loneliness to a higher degree. There are also those people who may not necessarily fear loneliness in general, but they are afraid of being separated from the important people in their lives. For example, lots of people end up staying in abusive or dysfunctional relationships because they are afraid of being separated from their children.
 


 
 
 


 
Fear of disappointing others
 
 


 
We all feel a certain sense of obligation towards the people in our lives, but there are some people who are extremely afraid of disappointing others. This kind of fear is similar to the fear of embarrassment and the fear of rejection because it means that the person puts a lot of stock into how others perceive him or her. The fear of disappointing others can occur naturally, and it can actually be useful in some situations; parents who are afraid of disappointing their families will work harder to provide for them, and children who are afraid of disappointing their parents will study harder at school. In this case, the fear is actually constructive. However, it becomes unhealthy when it’s directed at the wrong people, or when it forces you to compromise your own comfort and happiness. 
 


 
 
 


 
When manipulators find out that you have a fear of disappointing others, they'll try to put you in a position where you feel like you owe them something. They’ll do certain favors for you, and then they’ll manipulate you into believing that you have a sense of obligation towards them. They will then guilt you into complying with any request whenever they want something from you.
 


 
 
 


 
Personality Dependent disorders and emotional dependency
 
 


 
Dependent personality disorder refers to a real disorder that is characterized by a person having an excessive and even pervasive need to be taken care of. This need often leads the person to be submissive towards the people in their lives and to be clingy and afraid of separation. People with this disorder act in ways that are meant to elicit caregiving. They tend to practice what's called "learned helplessness." This is where they act out of a conviction that they are unable to do certain things for themselves, and they need the help of others.
 


 
 
 


 
Such people have a hard time making decisions, even when dealing with simple things like picking out which clothes to wear. They need constant reassurance and advice, and they let others take the lead in their own lives. These are the kinds of people who either move back into their parents' homes as adults or treat their spouses and partners as though they are their parents.  
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators like to target people with dependent personality disorders because they are very easy to control and dominate. These people willingly cede control over their lives to others, so when manipulators come knocking, they don’t face much resistance. Manipulators start off by giving them a false sense of security, but once they have won their trust, they switch gears and start imposing their will on them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional dependency is somewhat similar to dependent personality disorder, but it doesn't rise to the level of clinical significance. It stems from having low self-esteem, and it’s often a result of childhood abandonment issues. People with an emotional dependency will play the submissive role in relationships for fear of losing their partners. They tend to be very agreeable because they want to please the people in their lives. Such people are easy to manipulate, and malicious people can easily dominate them. 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 













 
Chapter 8: What is Persuasion?
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The goal of any type of manipulation is to get the intended person to do something. This can either be a direct action or a more general sort of behavioral change. It can also be the deliberate alteration of held beliefs, opinions, and world views. Getting to change the way a person thinks is tantamount to changing that person. The breakdown of an intended target’s belief system is one of the first things that an experienced manipulator goes after. 
 


 
In a world fueled by an increasingly divided political base, public opinion matters. The ability to sway public opinion to have a favorable view of an organization, political party or candidate is a form of manipulation. But here we come across the thin line once again between malicious manipulation and just plain manipulation. It is unclear whether a politician is malicious when they make promises on their campaign trail only to fall back on them when they are in office.  
 


 
Such promises might get them more votes, and might be to an extent misleading, but it isn’t clear if they are malicious. Most would say that the candidate with the best speeches, talking points, and overall rhetorical strategies is the candidate who is most persuasive to their cause. And while persuasion sounds harmless at the surface level, persuasion is still a form of manipulation. To understand why it bears going back in history to find the beginnings of persuasion when it was being perfected as an art.  
 


 
 
 


 
Pathos, Ethos, Logos the Three Emissaries of Public Opinion
 
 


 
The art of persuasion can be traced back to Greek origins. It was used as a tool by great orators to get their message across to the common folk. For a country that is said to have created the political frameworks behind democracy, persuasion was immensity popular. If you have ever taken an advanced writing class that went over rhetorical analysis, you might recognize the above three rhetorical modes of pathos, ethos, and logos. These were billed by Aristotle as the three main appeals that an orator could make to move their audience. 
 


 
Its usage implies that the audience is a malleable entity, like putty. The words of a skilled orator can manipulate the audience like a child might manipulate a piece of putty. Other times persuasion is simply used to rile up a cause that was already popular, to begin with, but that had been up to that point undisclosed.  
 


 
The three rhetorical modes are important because they represent three different attack vectors that a manipulator might use to persuade their audience. Again, any form of persuasion is a type of mental manipulation, but it doesn’t become a psychological attack until it becomes malicious. In other words, there is a difference between plain old persuasive arguments and using persuasion to carry out dark psychology. 
 


 
Regular persuasion is the type that might make you vote for a candidate, or buy some product (though some would argue that modern-day advertising has dark psychology aspects). Malicious persuasion, on the other hand, might entice you to go against your set of morals and beliefs. This sort of persuasion is dangerous, because an attacker’s arguments may seem very convincing to you when, in reality, they are just cleverly designed to trick you. At the same time, the persuasion is being used for the benefit of someone else (most types of persuasion we are familiar with already do this).  
 


 
The dark psychology mindset tells us that there are people out there with less than kind objectives. They may be after your wealth, your emotional labor, your body, your mind, or just a few minutes of your attention. And all of this is theoretically possible through the levying of persuasive techniques. But first, we should talk about everyday persuasion in the traditional sense. What is it, who uses it, and how to detect persuasive arguments. 
 


 
 
 


 
Modern Day Aristotle
 
 


 
No matter what persuasive argument you come across, they will have all of the semblances of Aristotle’s appeals, mixed in with a modern “secret sauce” that is unique to the persuader (and indeed the situation). It is still worth talking about persuasion and persuasive arguments because they are the cornerstone of all types of manipulation. If a manipulator was a boxer, persuasion techniques would be like their left jab. Not as powerful as a KO punch, but still the punch that lands them the most points and slows down their opponent. 
 


 
A modern-day Aristotle can be anyone. A politician, a used cars salesman, even your mother is trying to convince you to move closer to home. All of these would be Aristotle's have something in common: they want something from you. And it is your job to decide whether their needs are genuine and desirable for all parties. They will no doubt stop at anything to convince you that they are. To do this, you have to separate their argument from the chaff. For persuasive techniques, the chaff is usually the bubbly language or the sharp edge in their arguments that really cuts you into you. 
 


 
But beware. Just because it cuts you, it doesn’t mean that it is deep, or meaningful to you in any way. Many skillful persuaders will only pander to already preconceived notions that their audiences may have. They simply say something that they know their audience will like, and instantly become that much more credible. 
 


 
But someone trying to come up with a novel argument will first have to design a rhetorical strategy using any of the three rhetorical modes available. This is true whether they are trying to form an essay, a speech, or simply persuade you into doing something. The world of sales is chock-full of strategies used designed to get you to buy. A competent salesman may try to get to know you first (especially if the purchase is large, like a new house or car). They wish to form a relationship on the first-name basis and then pose as a close friend. 
 


 
In the world of sales, the only thing that matters is the purchase. If a customer decides to buy, then whatever strategies used to make that sale are fair game. This opens the ground for deploying several different types of psychological tricks against the unsuspecting customer. For example, a salesman may introduce them to a high-end item that is purposely out of their buying range and then redirects them towards an item of similar functionality that is perceived as being more affordable. 
 


 
A family looking to buy a new laptop for their college-bound son may be directed towards the expensive and latest Apple laptop product only to realize that it is well out of their budget. The savvy salesperson can then walk them to the Windows computers aisle and show them an alternative product that is the same color as an Apple computer, but that has a different operating system and is slightly less performative. Now, that other laptop may still be a flagship item and have a sizable price tag, but it is perceived as a good buy by the family because the salesperson showed them an item they believe to be state of the art.  
 


 
Such tricks are less persuasive strategies than they are crude psychological manipulation. But both of these things can be used for devastating effect. Persuasion that is more psychological in nature involves more trickery and subterfuge—the type of things one would expect except dark psychology techniques. Indeed, the salesman trick of going high and then going low can pass as a type of emotional manipulation. It is subtle, but there is clear pandering towards what a customer believes their money can buy them. First, they are shown what is considered to be the “it” product. But since they can’t afford it, the salesman is putting them on an emotional roller coaster of desire. 
 


 
In a way, it is a projection of what the customer believes they deserve. Sure, they can’t afford the best, but since they feel like they deserve the best (and since the salesman believes that they deserve the best) then buying the next best product is an easy choice. And if they can afford the high-end object the salesman shows them first, then their job is already finished. In other words, whether the customer buys the expensive item or the lesser expensive one, the salesman still wins. It is a perfect example of a psychological manipulation that is difficult to detect in the heat of the moment, and that has a high rate of success. 
 


 
Pathos 
 


 
Pathos is an appeal to emotion. Traditionally, it has been based on appeals to sadness or pity (which shouldn’t come as a surprise seeing that the Greeks were very into plays and tragedies). Nowadays, any appeal that has a strong emotional response may be considered as pathos. Emotion has infiltrated the marketing world in recent years, especially when it comes to social media ad campaigns. Companies and large corporations are waking up to the new realities of social awareness. Never before has an audience been so keen on the problems facing the world, many of which are blamed on the corporations in the first place. 
 


 
Pathos works best when it is bare and out in the open. When used correctly it hits the target like a punch to the gut (think about those cancer hospital commercials or animal cruelty videos) Pathos often strives to make the audience uncomfortable, but making the audience feel good about themselves is just as common now. 
 


 
The anatomy of a good argument from pathos is as follows: establish a connection with the audience through common understanding, put forth an argument, and then charge the audience with the emotional payload in relation to the argument. Take, for example, the following implicit argument about cancer research. 
 


 
1. Cancer is a terrible disease. Cancer can hit anyone, at any time, even innocent children. Sometimes it the reward for simply being “born.” Because of this, it is in the best interest for humans to find a cure for it. 
 


 
2. Cancer is a common enemy for humanity to defeat (1). An effective way to defeat it is to increase government t and public spending on cancer research. 
 


 
3. The people who suffer the most from cancer are those who are diagnosed with it and their families. The financial burden of a cancer diagnosis can be just as disastrous as the illness itself. 
 


 
4. Charity organizations can both provide aid to families (3) and increase spending on cancer research (2) 
 


 
5. Therefore, by donating to charity organizations (4) you helping fight in the war against cancer (2) 
 


 
This entire argument can be implied through a short, 30 second commercial on TV by using compelling images. It is powerful because it establishes a moral common ground (cancer is bad, people who get cancer through no fault of their own don’t deserve it) and then uses that common ground against the audience (if you don’t donate, then you have no sympathy for others). Or alternatively, if you don’t donate to help end cancer, then you are contributing to the deaths of thousands every year) 
 


 
Note that appeals to emotion are almost always logical fallacies. Obviously, a person can still be sympathetic towards cancer research but not have the kind of disposable income to donate. Or they don’t believe that charities are efficient at getting money to the cause (this happens all the time).  
 


 
But pathos is effective because not everyone cares about spotting a fallacious argument when they are getting hit in the gut by an emotional attack. Though logically inconsistent, plenty of people do and will fall for the persuasive power of pathos arguments. 
 


 
Ethos 
 


 
Ethos is less easy to classify into argument form. In Ancient Greek, ethos means “character.” It is sometimes called the appeal to ethics, from the Nicomachean ethics theorized by Aristotle himself. His ethics, in short, emphasized personal character and virtue. An Aristotelian appeal to ethics, then, is an appeal from someone's character (if it is deemed virtuous). For example, people were more likely to listen to what an esteemed orator had to say that to pay attention to what the local drunk said. Politicians in Ancient Greece used the power of ethos to solidify their public image as men of virtue. Men who, on any given day, acted in the way that the ideal man should. This demeanor of rightness gave them considerable voting share. 
 


 
Now when we use ethos, we use it a little differently (though in many situations in the same way of old). Instead of making an appeal to the ethics of the speaker, modern ethos makes an appeal to authority, social standing, fame, and domain knowledge. We live in a world where experts in their fields hold more persuasive power than the right to do man. And why shouldn’t we? The scientific revolution shifted the focus from virtue ethics to the scientific method. It is now men in lab coats who command the strongest ethos in a purely logical sense. 
 


 
People listen to doctors for their health advice. But they might also listen to what a celebrity says, or believe the political advice given by a five-star general. They might listen to what their local religious leaders say (both in established religious sects and in cults). Children listen to what their nearest authority—their parents—tell them to do. And so guess the argument. Ethos is convincing because people believe in the person who is endorsing the argument. They want to show the way, by someone who has the perceived authority to do so. 
 


 
These arguments, like with appeals to emotions, tend to be hopelessly fallacious. Before cigarette companies were demonized for selling cancer-causing product and before they were required to put health information on the label, they used depictions of doctors or celebrities smoking. But doctors or celebrities endorsing a product says nothing about their potential harm, especially before cigarettes were branded a carcinogen. Prior to the acceptance that cigarettes caused lung and throat cancers, the major concern was with dental health. A new line of cigarette filters was created to protect consumers oral hygiene, rather than to protect them from the real menace.  
 


 
A quite famous old-timey cigarette ad by Viceroys featured a man in a white frock with the caption “As your dentist, I would recommend Viceroys.” The emphasis was that Viceroy filters prevented tar buildup and were thus “healthier” for you than other brands. Of course, we know now that the notion of a healthy cigarette is completely absurd. 
 


 
Perhaps the most well-known of these arguments is WWJD, or “What would Jesus do?”. Jesus is a moral character, is given moral weight to any situation. By posing the question to any potential dilemma, one could imagine the righteous course of action.  
 


 
Logos 
 


 
The last rhetorical mode is logos or appeals to logic. This is the most straightforward rhetorical mode available and the most logically consistent. An appeal to logic will have the necessary scientific and mathematical facts to back up the argument’s position. An argument for gun control should be accompanied with a number of violent crimes using handguns, deaths and so on compared across various different gun control legislation (including no legislation). The audience is then tasked with deciding for themselves f the numbers tell the truth, or if they tell lies.  
 


 
Logos can be used by itself or in conjunction with ethos and pathos to form a persuasive argument.
 


 
While logos seems logically consistent at first glance, it is still possible to form fallacious arguments using them. And these are just as convincing as using arguments from the other two forms. 
 


 
A drug company is trying to sell a new medication for a serious illness. The company says that their product saves 20% more lives (or some other treatment improvement. But what does this really mean? The company doesn’t provide a full breakdown where their numbers came from. All the consumer sees is a commercial with uplifting music and people doing everyday things.  
 


 
What the company may not tell you, is that the breakdown is much more sinister. In other words, if only 20 people normally survive out of 100, then a 20% increase is only four additional people. That isn’t very much—especially when you consider the potential side effects of the given medication. 
 


 
Sadly, pharmaceutical companies get away with this all the time. They use purposely misleading health information in the form of relative frequencies (mostly because they are easier to understand). The net effect is that a consumer might make a decision based on false pretenses. For the company, it means higher profits. 
 


 













 
Chapter 9: Methods of Persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 The basis of persuasion is to direct the other person to the thought you desire and to make it normal in the basic belief and vision system. To simplify, it is to make the other person think the way you want. That's exactly what it means to convince. If the other person thinks the way you want, you can take the action that you want to take, that is, buying a product or consuming a product.  
 


 
Located below are techniques to persuade and convince some of the most effective techniques effectively. Persuasion techniques are not limited to these, but they are important for efficiency. You may encounter many other techniques of persuasion, such as rewarding, punishing, creating a positive or negative perception.  
 


 
1. Creating Needs  
 


 
One of the best methods of persuasion is to create a need or to reassure an old need. This question of need is related to self-protection and compatibility with basic emotions such as love. This technique is one of the biggest trumps of marketers in particular. They try to sell their products or services using this technique. The kind of approaches that express the purchase of a product to make one feel safe or loving is part of the need-building technique.  
 


 
2. Touching Social Needs  
 


 
The basis of the technique of touching social needs are factors such as being popular, having prestige, or having the same status as others. The advertisements on television are the ideal examples. People who buy the products in these advertisements think they will be like the person in the advertisement or they will be as prestigious. The main reason why persuasion techniques such as touching social needs are effective is related to television advertising. Many people watch television for at least 1-2 hours a day and encounter these advertisements.  
 


 
3. Use of Meaningful and Positive Words  
 


 
Sometimes it is necessary to use magic words to be convincing. These magic words are meaningful and positive words. Advertisers know these positive and meaningful words intimately. It is very important for them to be able to use them. The words “New,” “Renewed,” “All Natural,” “Most Effective” are the most appropriate examples of these magic words. Using these words, advertisers try to promote their products and thus make the advertisements more convincing for the liking of the products.  
 


 
4. Use of Foot Technique  
 


 
This technique is frequently used in the context of persuasion techniques. The processing way is quite simple. You make a person do something very small first because you think they can't refuse it. Once the other person has done so, you will try to get him to do more, provided he is consistent within himself.  
 


 
First, you sell a product to a person at a very low price. Then you get him to buy a product at higher prices. In the first step, you attract him to yourself, so you convince him to buy it. In the second step, you convince yourself to buy products at a higher price. Their acceptance of a small thing will help you to fulfill the next big demand from you.  
 


 
After refusing the small request from the other party, you feel a duty to make a big request from the same person. This is usually the case in human relations. For example, you agree when your neighbor comes and asks you if you can keep an eye on the shop for a few hours. If your neighbor comes to ask you to look at the shop all day, you will feel responsible and probably accept it. This means that the technique of putting a foot on the door is successfully applied.  
 


 
5. Use of Orientation from Big to Small  
 


 
The tendency to ask from big to small is the exact opposite of the technique of putting a foot on the door. The salesperson makes an unrealistic request from the other person. Naturally, this demand doesn’t correspond to the real issue. However, the salesperson then makes a request that is smaller than the same person. People feel responsible for such approaches, and they will accept the offer. Since the request is small, by accepting it, people have the idea that they will help the salespeople and the technique of moving from big to small requests works.  
 


 
6. Use of Reciprocity  
 


 
Reciprocity is a term for mutual progress of a business. When a person does you a kindness, you feel the need to do him a favor. This is one example of reciprocity. For example, if someone bought you a gift on your birthday, you would try to pay back that gesture. This is more of a psychological approach because people don’t forget the person who does something for them and they try to respond accordingly.  
 


 
For marketers, the situation is slightly different from human relations. Reciprocity takes place here in the form of a marketer offering you an interim extra discount” or “extra” promotion... You are very close to buying the product introduced by the marketer you think offers a special offer.  
 


 
7. Making Limits for Interviews  
 


 
Setting a limit for negotiations is to provide an approach that will affect future rights. This is particularly effective when negotiating prices. For example, if you are trying to negotiate a price to sell a service, it might make more sense to start by opening the price from a higher number. Opening from a low number is not the right method because you have weakened your stretching share.  
 


 
Even if the limitation for negotiations is not always useful, it’s particularly useful in terms of price negotiation. Say the first number and get on with the bargaining advantage.  
 


 
8. Limitation Technique  
 


 
Restriction technique is one of the most powerful methods to influence human psychology. You can see this mostly in places selling products. For example, if a store has a discount on a particular product, it may limit it to 500 products. This limitation can be a true limitation or a part of the limitation technique. So, you think that you will not find the product at that price again and you agree to buy that product at the specified price.  
 


 
The restriction technique is particularly useful in new products. As soon as a new product goes on sale, you can convince people to buy it for a limited time or by selling a limited quantity of products with extra promotions or discounts. People who think that the product will not be sold again at a similar price may choose to buy the product you have chosen thanks to the success of your persuasion technique.  
 


 
Persuasion techniques are not limited to these. Different techniques can provide more successful results in various fields. However, most of the techniques we may encounter in our daily lives consist of the methods shown here. If you want to be a marketer, if you are trying to sell a product or service, you need to have detailed information about these techniques if you want to make them available.   
 


 
 
 


 
Difference between Persuasion and Manipulation
  
 


 
 
 


 
There are many similarities between Persuasion and Manipulation as the two words confuse non-English individuals: Natives too. There are many comparisons between the two concepts, and because of the overlap, people think these two can be used interchangeably. There are convincing good people, and there are good manipulators. Both try to make sense and encourage others to accept their views. However, although there are similarities in manipulation to being able to persuade someone, there are differences that must be emphasized.  
 


 
Persuasion:  
 


 
Persuasion is a behavior from someone else directed in a specific direction. You've managed to convince when you try to explain a certain way of behavior logically and correctly, and others accept your opinion that they think is of mutual benefit. If you have good marks on your test and you asked your mother for an expensive gift, you are trying to convince her to buy you a gift. This persuasion is convincing because it sees the logic behind your request and she buys the gift. 
 


 













 
Chapter 10: Brainwashing
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
If you would ask a person at random whether they know what brainwash means, you get an affirmative answer 90 percent of the time. That's not the case more often. This concept has been heard by many of us, but we often tend to confuse our vague realization of what it is for an otherwise accurate understanding. The question we dare ask ourselves then is what brainwashing means and why it does. It is perhaps the essential kind of dark psychology we are going to discuss, which offers much more negative results than the rest. 
 


 
This complex brainwashing enigma is essentially the gradual process of replacing the ideas of a victim with a manipulator about their being and of replacing them with new ideas that should adapt to one's own needs, and that can either narrowly take place. For example, a manipulator can control a person or adopt the same principle but a broad group. The circumstance of brainwashing is like the one where people believe they can be a call for a higher purpose to join a terrorist organization. In the majority of other scenarios, indoctrination appears to be effective. Most believe that brainwashing is the Hollywood fiction of someone who continually imposes certain concepts on their victims, and within a short period, the person becomes the manipulator for every bidding. More realistically, it is a process that generally changes an individual's perception of reality far from what they have had a very gradual but voluntary process. The fundamental trick is to make the victim feel as though they are always in control. There are several situations that make brainwashing possible, and often they are motivated differently by it. Let us discover these specific scenarios, starting with the situation of a cult. A cultic can be said to be an organization of people who often believe that one individual is considered as their leader in something larger than themselves. The leader is often characterized by his exceptionally great influences and a very charismatic behavior on his followers. The question that we now try to ask ourselves is, why is brainwashing a culture in those contexts? 
 


 
The very basic appeal that these cults possess is that actual reality is only graspable if they decide to cultivate and follow the teachings in the factions. This is often something that people want to listen to because the truth is that today's world is a complicated journey often appears confusing, which gives some relief from a promise of fraternity and an unparalleled opposite. Brainwash resonates here with the idea of a new normal. It is because of this idea that cults used by different sect leaders to brainwash the members to accept their mostly strange doctrines at the same time, making them a dominant theme in their lives. It sounded incredibly strange to idolize a mere mortal to the extent that he actually adored it. But that's so' normal' in a cult that it doesn't seem to be a little bizarre for other members. Probably the most potent way to ideological brainwashing is through this process of social strengthening. Cults have the same DNA as drug distributors. Why is that? Why? Usually, a person finds a particular sect to find something he or she lacks in life. In the drug world, the same thing happens because a person often tries not to experiment freely. Cults do not make brain ash people members, as people have sought some form of fulfillment of a particular desire. It is this innocent desire to search and to be prepared, making them easy goals for brainwashing. 
 


 
The context of ideologies would be another similar one, which must brainwash on its foreheads like cults. Their principal difference is that not so much the individual is the focus of ideology, but the whole idea. In principle, ideological brainwashing is stirred up by persons who have put absolute and full confidence in a plan. It is regarded as a very dangerous tactic because it goes beyond one person. Use an example to understand this better. When you look at the religious extremist groups, they worship their leaders like tomorrow is no one. Would it be enough to say that your' god' could be killed? This is a definite no because, as long as they are 6 feet below the surface of the ground, they will be praised and recognized as martyrs who died because of their ideologies. 
 


 
This theme not only resonates in the cultural playground, but it also places me on a more innocent level. The brainwashing effect on fans is too often experienced by musicians. If you hear music often, a diehard fan of a particular musician will mark a reasonably young and impressive person with his sense of identity and happiness for a specific musician. You are frequently able to defend your famous superstar as if you knew the person personally. Some fans will even go to a higher level to harm themselves if their idols also imply that it is a cool thing to do. Can you imagine the effects this will have if used in a cult context if ideological washing on the innocent level is so dangerous? In addition to the general brainwashing scenarios, it can easily take form in a personal setting. 
 


 
When you dive into the bowl of personal brainwashing, we find that the brainwashing process, as it is at the border, is also the slow and gradual replacement of the existing beliefs of a man with those placed by a manipulator to serve his benefit more effectively. The main difference between the two is that unlike a group to implement the new typical scenario, the manipulators, in this case, aim at establishing a profoundly personal relationship with the victim. This is considered to be stronger than the brainwashing group because the brainwashing tape can be continuously altered to match the psychological structure of the victim. 
 


 
After you have had an insight into the real occurrence of brainwashing, how do the manipulators use this kind of dark psychology? Hollywood's one thing is to lay the groundwork for indoctrination. Each brainwashing movie typically begins with a focus on the mental state of the individual and the social circumstances surrounding him — this way of controlling the mind. Brainwashing is not a technique that every single person can smoothly perform. These manipulators are often the preferred victim who seems to be attempting to fill an absolute emptiness, particularly those who are turned on by certain life events by their current reality. There is no question of losing a loved one as the best example of this to be illustrated. The emptiness is often conveyed to people wherever they go. This person, in search of their being full again, will choose to flee and join religious extremist groups and become suicide bombers in pursuit of being entire. The brainwasher gives us assurance as a killing ideology. 
 


 
Once a handler intensifies his aim from the Internet or in an individual, the brainwashing method has been launched. Contrary to the image, the actual representation of these unhappy personalities, which looks strange and culturally withdrawn from the fellow with a particularly distorted perversion as an intellectual washer, is north of this because they are only ordinary individuals with whom we communicate on a regular occasion, with a calm and pleasant feel. Slowly but certainly, the manipulator will operate challenging to create an atmosphere in which the person thinks he can trust him. It is accomplished by generating clever peripheral associations such as a shared interest in a specific sport and a similar musical relationship. After that, the manipulator will then move forward to create even more confidence. He does so by creating some grim experiences from the background, which are also associated with painful survivors. For instance, if the victims share in the loss of a wife, the manipulator will give them a history in which he, too, has lost a friend. 
 


 
The next phase is recognized as a demonstration of utopias. What does that imply? What does that imply? The manipulative person regularly provides alternatives to any of the issues that the people face. It is a brainwashing method. This is generally performed informally, at first, to prevent any negative pressure interactions of the person. The perfect introduction is never any specific item, and it is either character; the manipulator often tries to transform his target as well as religion or a particular religion. It could be either terror or his stupid willingness to honor and validate. If procedures are started correctly, a specific person often seeks to gain perspectives into greater knowledge of the alternatives. In certain situations, the manipulator will initially retain this data, emotionally forcing the person to operate to prevent it. This outcome is what occurs effectively. 
 


 
Once the person who was subsequently introduced into this new belief system and appeared to be reacting in such a manner that the manipulator would like to, his real motives will be revealed very carefully. This concept is called "gradual disclosure." In essence, this is a method where ideas are presented that are often simple to comprehend before anything disputed becomes apparent. When we stare at religious terrorism, this is made completely clear. Recruits are frequently taken in by persuasive phrases like God enjoys them. After you're a wholly committed participant, the story requires a severe turnaround. What those rulers advise the participants is that the person is now crossing a line of no exchange, and nothing can be said to modify their minds because of this love. 
 


 
I can bet that the question you are asking yourself right now is, why does the person consider it still okay to still communicate with his oppressor after the aims of manipulation have been disclosed? Usually, this is because of several factors. First of all, the participants experience a powerful feeling of pleasure and acceptance at this stage. This is because they took the time to build this solid base of friendship and helped them out of a challenging period in their lives. Secondly, the victim has spent a lot of time and money on the process so far and isn't right to let all of that drain back from everything. This is also referred to as the price mistake. Finally, because the manipulator has now collected a box of conflict of the perpetrators of most mysteries, the person decides to remain. They are cautious that this could be used at some stage at the moment against them. The problem of blackmail is not generally grasped to explain, particularly if they are endangered, why a person would be associated with them. Why is that? Why? The manipulator is willing to hide the truth often in a non-threatening manner as a master of deception. The manipulator will tell, "if I can no longer assist you, you get the greatest person, like a near family-member bug, you can go," because the manipulator already has a profound feeling of relationship and confidence in the subject, the blackmail image and power is usually seen to emanate from it. That is what persuades the viewer externally to remain ahead of this brainwasher's manipulating route. The events behind it create the pain and difficulty of moving back so severe that the only way to stay in this manipulative room is for the survivors. More often than not, this method puts the person in a situation to believe that whatever the manipulator says is eventually the reality. The person feels as if he has selected his opinions as his own and has sought them out of his will. This turns a human being, who is once usually imagining, away to something that they have no concept of life into an indoctrinated psychological slave. 
 


 
Brainwashing affects a person since it is considered as one of the most potent tactics of mental control. One of these side effects that the victim is likely to suffer is identity loss. In many cultures and ideologies, one characteristic is the fact that individuals often obliged to finish their initiation cycle are often told to give up their earlier identities, and their oppressors are granted another name. You're going to do what was just out of your moral radar before. When a manipulator skillfully deploys brainwashing, he tends to let the person feel like he only wakes up from a lifetime vision. 
 


 
The primary risk of brainwashing is not that it influences the manner the person believes about sand, but also significantly affects the behavior of manipulators. People are changing drastically from productive employees to morbid personal outcasts ready to commit abominable crimes like rape and assassination. 
 


 
 This feels somewhat drastic, but it's right in almost every way. If you have any doubt, for instance, as to what brainwashing an individual can do, take these instances. Members of certain spiritual cults happily break up all their links to their families beforehand, put behind their thriving lives, hand over all their assets and property, and give full autonomy to the organization that has brainwashed them — not everything. The person will regard their new lifestyles as a gift, rather than a disagreement in which they were compelled to live.  
 


 
Another example of the toxic brainwashing consequence is the recurring tale of mostly youthful people who are brainwashed by spiritual extremes who travel abroad to a community of persons that they never encountered and never damaged by a car filled with explosives Such perpetrators are often educated people who have a long history of lives and have no disruption or abuse. Does this dramatic death show that the brainwashing method is overwhelming, conquesting?  
 


 
Another characteristic of those who escape or who is rescued from an intense brainwashing situation is post-traumatic stress disorder. In most instances, victims of brainwashing show severe symptoms of mental distress comparable to those of military servicemen. This demonstrates that brainwashing produces outcomes similar to those submitted in a war-like context, which is probably the most significant impact of brainwashing, where the person returns to the communities they once thought secure after being expertly drawn out from the bleak angles. Even though the people have been fished from this psychological grip, some have been harmed only too much that they wind up with latches in the fingers of their manipulator. This is because they are so harmed that they do not understand otherwise. 
 


 













 
Chapter 11: Hypnosis
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Hypnosis or hypnotherapy is a state that is trance-like where a person’s focus is heightened as well as their concentration. Hypnosis is done with the assistance of a therapist that uses verbal repetitions and mental pictures. When a person is put under hypnosis, they normally feel relaxed, calm and are open to suggestions. 
 


 
Therapists have used hypnosis to help individuals gain control over behaviors that are undesirable. In dealing with anxiety and pain, hypnosis has also been found to be helpful. Although a person is relaxed and more open-minded to receive various suggestions, it is important to know that a person doesn’t lose control over their behavior. 
 


 
 
 


 
Why is Hypnosis Done?
 
 


 
Therapists say that hypnosis is an excellent way to cope with anxiety and stress. For instance, if someone is supposed to go for a medical procedure that they are anxious and stressed about, hypnosis can help calm them before the procedure. There are various conditions where hypnosis is used. These may include: 
 




 
Pain control – if a person is suffering from chronic pains from cancer, childbirth, joints, headaches among others, hypnosis may help in bearing the pain. 
 


 
Hot flashes – when a woman is going through menopause, she will experience hot flashes that are uncomfortable most of the time. Hypnosis has been known to help with the discomfort of hot flashes. 
 


 
Behavior change – some people may find themselves having behaviors that are undesirable. Such include bed-wetting, insomnia, eating disorders, among others. The use of hypnosis has been known to help in transforming these undesirable behaviors. 
 


 
Side effects of cancer treatment – during cancer treatment, patients go through chemotherapy and radiation treatment. These forms of treatments leave the patient with undesirable side effects. The use of hypnosis helps cancer patients deal with these effects and cope with the treatment. 
 


 
Mental health conditions – many people suffer from various mental health issues such as post-traumatic stress, anxiety, phobias, among many more. The uses of hypnosis help a person deal with these conditions and bring relief. 
 




 
 
 


 
What are the Risks of Hypnosis?
 
 


 
When hypnosis is done by a trained therapist or a medical practitioner, it is considered a safe addition and alternative treatment. However, in people with serious mental health issues, hypnosis may not be the best method to use. There are various reactions to hypnosis. However, these reactions are rare and they include: 
 




 
The person may feel dizzy after therapy 
 


 
Experience slight headaches 
 


 
After therapy, a person may feel drowsy 
 


 
A person can be distressed or anxious 
 


 
In rare cases, hypnosis can create false memories 
 




 
 
 


 
Preparing for Hypnosis
 
 


 
There is no need for special preparations before a hypnosis session. However, it is recommended for a person to be comfortable and relaxed. It is also important for a person to be well-rested to avoid falling asleep during therapy. 
 


 
Before you go for therapy, research and ensure the therapist you have settled on is certified to perform hypnosis. Look for someone you trust that has undergone hypnosis and ask for references. You can also opt to interview the therapist before the session by finding out some of these: 
 




 
Does your therapist have psychology, social work, medicine training? 
 


 
Is your therapist licensed and certified to perform hypnosis? 
 


 
Where did the therapist get his training from? 
 


 
How much training does your therapist have in hypnotherapy and where did they get the training from? 
 


 
Does your therapist belong to any professional organizations and if so which ones? 
 


 
How long has the therapist been in practice? 
 


 
How much the cost per session and are their sessions covered by insurance? 
 




 
Once you have settled on a therapist, he or she will explain the expectations and the process. The therapist will then embark on talking in a gentle soothing voice as he describes pictures that create relaxation, well-being, and security. 
 


 
When you are relaxed and in a state of reception, the therapist will begin to suggest ways you can achieve your goals. A therapist may also help you have a vivid mental picture of yourself accomplishing the goals. Once the session is over, you can either bring yourself out of it or the therapist will help get out of your relaxation state. 
 


 
During hypnosis, one does not lose control of their behavior. A person is always aware and remembers all that happened during the hypnosis session. 
 


 
Hypnosis is used to help in coping with pain, anxiety, and stress and is used in cognitive behavioral therapy to change the behaviors and thoughts that are undesirable. However, hypnosis is not recommended for every person. Some people find it hard to get hypnotized while for others it is easy and they enjoy the benefits. 
 


 
 
 


 
Three Stages of Hypnosis
 
 


 
Hypnosis is a process that involves the deep body and mind relaxation. Before we get to the various hypnosis stages, it is important to first understand how hypnosis works or the process of hypnotherapy. 
 




 
Getting ready – every hypnotherapy session with a qualified therapist must be carried out in a relaxed, safe and calm environment where there are no interruptions of any kind. There is usually a preliminary discussion between the therapist and the person to be hypnotized. This is usually done to establish if the person has had prior hypnotism sessions and their experiences as well as trying to establish the problem one needs working on. 
 




 
Most of the problems usually include a behavior or thoughts a person needs to balance or completely changed. For instance, a person may be struggling with bed-wetting; this behavior with the help of hypnosis is addressed and changed. 
 


 
A skilled therapist should gather as much information as possible during the preliminary talk. This is important so that he may work on the best technique for the particular person and problem. The pattern most therapists use during the session is loose. It follows: 
 




 
Preparing and screening a client 
 


 
Inducting a client to an altered state consciousness state 
 


 
Deepening the trance state that opens suggestibility 
 


 
Posthypnotic suggestions. This is where advice is given regarding the problem the therapist worked on. 
 






 
Induction – in a typical hypnotherapy session, the initial 15 minutes are for helping the client relax their mind and body. This stage is referred to as the induction stage. It involves helping a person to enter into a light state of trance by the use of relaxation techniques that work on the mind and body. 
 




 
Gradually, the person is encouraged to relax their muscles and mind. This technique is aimed at ridding a person of any tension and releasing anxiety. The therapist focuses on instructing the client to slow and control their breathing. This is also to help relax and distract the conscious mind so that a person focuses on the subconscious mind. Because of many methods of induction, it is important for the therapist to understand their client and apply a method that works for them. 
 




 
Deepening a trance – this stage is where the subconscious mind is made ready to be more receptive to suggestions or new behavior. Once the mind accepts new thought patterns, a change in behavior follows. To deepen the trance, some therapists may opt to continue reinforcing the induction method used. The method can be accompanied by visualization techniques that are very deep to increase the trance. A qualified therapist knows that it is important for a person to be deeply altered in consciousness before starting hypnotic suggestions. 
 




 
Now that you know how hypnosis works, it is important to understand the three stages to hypnotism. 
 


 
Stage 1 – Hypnoidal State 
 


 
This is the stage of light induction. At this stage, the person is encouraged to relax and have an internal focus. This stage is light and is characterized by the fluttering of the eyes of the person. 
 


 
Stage 2 – Cataleptic State  
 


 
This is the stage where the therapist moves to deepen the trance state. To know if a person is in this state, their eyes move from one side to the other. 
 


 
Stage 3 – Somnambulistic State 
 


 
This is the deepest stage in a trance. This is evidenced by the rolling up and down of eyes. This is the stage where suggestions are given and received at a subconscious level and the person in some cases may not remember hearing them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Applications for Hypnosis
 
 


 
Hypnosis has been known to have existed for as long as records have been able to show. According to the American Society for Clinical Hypnosis (ASCH), the use of modern clinical hypnotherapy goes back to the late 1700s. since 1958, the use of hypnotherapy as a form of reliable therapy and tremendously increased. Hypnotherapy has found use in the modern world in different ways. 
 


 
Hypnosis is used in various ways from mental health conditions to psychological and physical conditions. It is used on people suffering from chronic pain, depression, in sudden and acute illnesses, among others. Most health professionals nowadays recommend the use of hypnosis to treat their clients facing different conditions. Some of the uses of hypnosis include: 
 


 
Treatment of phobias and fears 
 


 
Unreasonable irrational fear or phobia of anything can be treated through the use of hypnotism. Many people struggle with phobias on a daily basis causing them not to function normally. Some of the fears that paralyze people are fear of spiders or arachnophobia, fear of enclosed spaces or claustrophobic, fear of heights, snakes, flying or agoraphobia; the fear of leaving home. A hypnotherapist will work with a patient while under hypnotism to try and identify the reasons for the fears and work on finding solutions to them. 
 


 
Stopping smoking 
 


 
There are people that want to stop their habit of smoking but it becomes very difficult. Most smokers attempt several times to quit smoking and find themselves falling back. Regardless of how committed a smoker is to cease smoking, it is not easy and they may need help to do so. A hypnotherapist may be able to help them. In a relaxed environment, the therapist works on understanding the various stress factors in the life of the client that may be causing fall back to smoking every time they stop.  A therapist will go to the subconscious mind to find these reasons and make suggestions on how to stop. Once the subconscious mind has received the suggestions, it is then possible for the person to change their behavior by addressing the stress factors. 
 


 
Weight loss 
 


 
Many people struggle with weight loss and often feel they have lost the battle with food. With a qualified hypnotherapist, a person can learn more about their relationship with food. They also learn why they have no control over food and how to overcome their cravings. Through hypnosis, a therapist can suggest ways to overcome the destructive behavior and have a healthy relationship with food. 
 


 
Boosting Confidence 
 


 
There are many people that suffer from low self-esteem issues. To gain their confidence back, such people may require assistance. Most people lose confidence because they can seem to embrace their good qualities. A therapist can help such a person find their confidence by tapping on their best qualities that are subconsciously hidden. 
 


 
Anesthesiology during surgery 
 


 
There are cases where a surgeon may hire a hypnotherapist to supplement medical anesthesia. In some extremely rare cases, hypnotherapy has been used solely as an anesthetic during a surgical procedure. Some procedures that surgeons have used hypnotherapy include the removal of gall bladder, cesarean, hysterectomy, and amputation. There are patients that have sensitiveness and allergies of chemicals used in anesthesia. However, they can still benefit from health-improving and life-saving procedures through the use of hypnotherapy.  
 


 
Hypnosis has been credited with improving the lives of many people. For cognitive-behavioral therapy, hypnotism has been known to help many patients transform their thoughts and in effect changing their outward behaviors for better. 
 


 
 
 


 
Types of Hypnotherapy
 
 


 
There are many types of hypnotherapy techniques used in the world today. Depending on the need of the client and the therapist, different therapies can be used to treat a given condition. However, here we are going to discuss some of the most common hypnotherapies available. 
 


 
Cognitive hypnotherapy 
 


 
Cognitive hypnotherapy uses hypnosis to align the subconscious mind with the conscious one and the way it understands reality.  Cognitive hypnotherapy is most useful for dealing with anxiety and phobias although it can also be used for other conditions. 
 


 
Ericksonian hypnotherapy 
 


 
Milton Erickson was a family psychiatrist and a medical hypnotist. He brought a revolution in the use of hypnotherapy to approach many issues. Ericksonian hypnotherapy uses storytelling to change behavior while the patient is under hypnosis. 
 


 
Hypno-psychotherapy 
 


 
This is an approach where hypnosis is used alongside another type of psychotherapy like mindfulness, psychodynamic, among others. Therapists that offer this kind of therapy often have training in psychotherapy as well as hypnotherapy. Through hypnotherapy, a therapist can be able to analyze more deep-seated issues and is helpful for individuals that feel they need more. 
 


 
Hypnoanalysis 
 


 
It draws from analytical psychotherapy concepts. Hypnoanalysis looks to know a trigger or a cause of an event that leads to the problem at hand. By understanding the root of a problem, the hypnotherapist helps in resolving negative associations that come from the issue. This process can take several sessions because it needs the patient and the therapist to build a trusting relationship. 
 


 
Neuro-linguistic Programming (NLP) 
 


 
This is a technique hypnotherapist’s use often in their practice. This technique is designed to help patients help themselves to reach their best state of mind and attain happiness. 
 


 
Past life regression 
 


 
Therapists that use this technique believe each person has a past and they use hypnosis to recover past memories. They believe these memories are able to help understand why a person is struggling with various issues and understand who they are better. This is a holistic therapy that works the mind, spirit, body, and emotions. Past life regression is especially useful where a person feels stuck on certain issues of the past. 
 


 
Solution-focused hypnotherapy 
 


 
This kind of hypnotherapy focuses on the present. It looks at your current situation to determine your future would look like. this kind of therapy is centered on the client meaning the client takes the lead in the session while being guided by the hypnotherapist. In this session, a client focuses on setting goals and questioning techniques that one needs to get solutions. It is based on the premise that a client has inner strength and resources to draw upon and help themselves. 
 


 
Suggestion hypnotherapy 
 


 
In most types of hypnotherapy, suggestion techniques are employed. The premise behind the use of hypnotherapy is that when a person is in a hypnotic state, their subconscious is more open to suggestions or advice. During hypnotherapy, suggestions are given that are aimed at helping alter the thought pattern of the patient. If the aim is to transform behaviors, this technique is ideal and it also helps in dealing with anxiety and stress. 
 


 
Timeline Therapy 
 


 
Timeline therapy is based on the understanding that the memories of a person are stored in a linear pattern. A timeline therapist uses various techniques to help a person release beliefs that are limiting as well as negative emotions that are linked to their past. This technique is believed to be very helpful in dealing with depression, stress and anxiety disorders.
 


 













 
Chapter 12: Dark NLP
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
What is Neuro Linguistic Programming?
 
 


 
Neuro-Linguistic Programming has to do with the study of thoughts (neuro) and language (linguistic) in a systemic way and the scripts that run the life of an individual (programming).   
 


 
It deals with the understanding and the development of the mind and the entire understanding of the language of the mind in relation to the way it is designed to function and the ways in which it is molded by the personal experiences of an individual. It is simply a study of a person's subjective reality.  
 


 
A proper understanding of the language of the mind influences every aspect of a person’s life from his relationship with others to his communication skills with friends and clients to the general outcome of a person’s life. It is a holistic study that puts the spirit, body, past and present of an individual into consideration.  
 


 
As Homo sapiens who are gifted with the ability to think, it is presumed that our most important function is the thought or the thinking function. NLP, however, brings one to the understanding of the fact that no thought process exists in a vacuum, as they are a product of a person's perspective. It has a presupposition of perception as reality and it holds that the things, we think are colored by the way we think.  
 


 
For different individuals there are different ways of thinking and interpreting reality. What NLP does is assist in the understanding of these various representational systems to help each person narrow down his own system. It helps in the understanding of the three different types of thinking patterns which are:  
 


 
Visual: deals with both pictures and visual metaphors.  
 


 
Auditory: sound (hearing).  
 


 
Kinesthetic: deals with the five senses, as well as gut feelings.  
 


 
In NLP, a person is thought to take absolute control of his mind and ultimately his life. Unlike what is obtainable in psychoanalysis, which places its focus on “why,” NLP presents a more practical approach with its focus on the “how.”
   
 


 
 
 


 
How NLP Works
  
 


 
If you are just coming across this topic for the first time, NLP may appear or seem like magic or hypnosis. When a person is undergoing therapy, this topic digs deep into the unconscious mind of the patient and filters through different layers of beliefs and the person's approach or perception of life to deduce the early childhood experiences that are responsible for a behavioral pattern.   
 


 
In NLP, it is believed that everyone has the resources that are needed for positive changes in their own lives. The technique adopted here is meant to help in facilitating these changes.  
 


 
Usually, when NLP is taught, it is done in a pyramidal structure. However, the most advanced techniques are left for those multi-thousand-dollar seminars. An attempt to explain this complicated subject is to state that the NLPer (as those who use NLP will often call themselves) is always paying keen attention to the person they are working on/with.   
 


 
Usually, there is a large majority of NLPers that are therapists and they are very likely to be well-meaning people. They achieve their aims by paying attention to those subtle cues like the movement of the eyes, flushing of the skin, dilation of the pupil and subtle nervous tics. It is easy for an NLP user to quickly determine the following:  
 




 
The side of the brain that the person uses predominantly.  
 


 
The sense (smell, sight, etc.) that is more dominant in a person’s brain.  
 


 
The way the person’s brain stores and makes use of information (the NLPer can deduce all this from the person’s eye movement).  
 


 
When they are telling a lie or concocting information.  
 




 
When the NLP user has successfully gathered all this information, they begin to mimic the client in a slow and subtle manner by not only taking on their body language, but also by imitating their speech and mannerisms, so that they begin to talk with the language patterns that are aimed at targeting the primary senses of the client. They will typically fake the social cues that will easily make someone let their guard down so that they become very open and suggestible.  
 


 
For example, when a person’s sense of sight is their most dominant sense, the NLPer will use a language that is very laden with visual metaphors to speak with them. They will say things like: “do you see what I am talking about?” or “why not look at it this way?” For a person that has a more dominant sense of hearing, he will be approached with an auditory language like: “listen to me” or “I can hear where you’re coming from.”   
 


 
To create a rapport, the NLPer mirrors the body language and the linguistic patterns of the other person. This rapport is a mental and physiological state which a human being gets into when they lose guard of their social senses. It is done when they begin to feel like the other person who they are conversing with is just like them.   
 


 
Once the NLPer have achieved this rapport, they will take charge of the interaction by leading it in a mild and subtle manner. Thanks to the fact that they have already mirrored the other person, they will now begin to make some subtle changes in order to gain a certain influence on the behavior of the person. This is also combined with some similar subtle language patterns which lead to questions and a whole phase of some other techniques.   
 


 
At this point, the NLPer will be able to tweak and twist the person to whichever direction they so desire. This only happens if the other person can’t deduce that there is something going on because they assume everything that is occurring is happening organically or that they have given consent to everything.   
 


 
What this means is that it is quite hard to make use of NLP to get other people to act out of character, but it can be used to get a person to give responses within their normal range of character. 
 


 
At this point, what the NLP user seeks to do may be to either elicit or anchor. When they are eliciting, they make use of both leading and language to get the person to an emotional state of say, sadness. Once they can elicit this state, they can then lead it on with a physical cue by touching the other person's shoulder for example.   
 


 
According to theory, whenever the NLP user touches the person's shoulder in the same manner, the same emotional state will resurface if they do it again. However, this is only made possible by the successful conditioning of the other person.  
 


 
When undergoing NLP therapy, it is very possible for the therapist to adopt a content-free approach, which means the therapist can work effectively without taking a critical look at the problem or without even knowing about the problem at all. This means that there is room for privacy for the client as the therapist does not really need to be told about whichever event took place or whatever issue happened in the past.  
 


 
Also, prior to the commencement of the therapy, there is an agreement which ensures that the therapist cannot disclose any information, hence the interaction between the therapist and the client remains confidential.  
 


 
In NLP, there is the belief in the need for the perfection of the nature of human creation, so every client is encouraged to recognize the sensitivity of the senses and make use of them in responding to specific problems. As a matter of fact, NLP also holds the belief that it is possible for the mind to find cures to diseases and sicknesses.  
 


 
The techniques employed by NLP have to do with a noninvasive, medicine-free therapy that enables the client to find out new ways of handling emotional issues such as low self-esteem, lack of confidence, anxiety and destructive relationship patterns. It is also a successful tool in effective bereavement counselling.  
 


 
With its roots in the field of behavioral science, which was developed by Skinner, Pavlov and Thorndike, NLP makes use of the combination physiology and the unconscious mind to bring about change in the thought process and ultimately the behavior of a person.  
 


 
 
 


 
Importance of NLP
  
 


 
NLP is not only necessary for the understanding of a person's being, but it also helps in the understanding of the way an individual is. It helps a person to get deep into the root cause of the problem, as well as the foundation of their being.   
 


 
Here are some other reasons why NLP is important:  
 


 
It helps people take responsibility for the things that they feel they may not be able to control. With the help of NLP, it is possible for a person to change the way they react to events of the past and have a certain level of control over their future.  
 


 
It is very important for people to be aware of the body language of the members of their inner circle, as well as those who they seek to do business with. With NLP, it is possible to make use of language with both control and purpose, and with this it is possible to have control over your life.   
 


 
Remember, you cannot expect to make the same mistakes using the same mindset and hope to get different results. During an NLP session, the focus is placed entirely on the client as they are made the subject. This helps a lot because at the point where a person can deal with his or herself as a person, they gain more clarity into his or her dealings with other people.  
 


 
It helps to improve finance, sales performance, marriage, health issues, parenting, customer service and every other aspect and phase of life. This is because it helps in the holistic improvement of an individual and when a person is whole, his interactions and relationship with himself and other people become whole as well.  
 


 
It assists in targeting your beliefs, thoughts and values and helps with the targeting of a person’s brain functions, as well as developing certain behaviors. It also shapes the way these behaviors metamorphoses into habits and how the habits change to actions which in turn comes as results.  
 


 
NLP is applicable in different vocations and professions. This is a tool that is very important in the mastery of sales, personal development experts and self-help, teaching, communication, parenting and other facets of life. 
 


 
 
 


 
NLP Techniques
  
 


 
Here are some of the techniques that are employed in the users of NLP:  
 


 
Dissociation
 


 
Everyone experiences a bad day when a situation ruins it and gives one a bad feeling. This may be an experience that drowns your spirit every time you are faced with it. Also, it may be a certain nervous feeling that comes at any point that you have to address an audience. It could be a feeling of shyness that comes whenever you need to approach a certain (special) person.  
 


 
Although it may seem as though this feeling of shyness, sadness or nervousness is automatic and unstoppable, what the NLP technique of dissociation offers are ways to get over these feelings.   
 


 
Get to know about the emotion that you wish to overcome. Whether it is a feeling of discomfort, anger or dislike for a certain situation.  
 


 
Imagine the possibility of teleportation and looking back at yourself going through the same situation, but this time from an observer’s point of view.  
 


 
Take note of the dramatic change that occurs in the feelings.  
 


 
To get an extra boost for your morale, think about floating out of your body and watching yourself. This means that you will now be looking at yourself while your other self is also looking at yourself. What this double dissociation attempts to do is to take away all the negative emotions in all possible minor situations.  
 


 
Content Reframing
 


 
This technique is useful for all the times you feel like you are trapped in a negative or helpless situation. With the help of reframing, you will be able to get rid of all negative situations by becoming empowered by interpreting the meaning of the situation into becoming a positive thing.   
 


 
Take a situation where your relationship ended for instance. Although it may seem as if it is an awful situation when one looks at it on the surface, what about the possibility of those hidden benefits of being single? Think of the fact that you are now open to meeting and interacting with new people, which means that it is possible for you to get into a new relationship. This means that you are now free to do whatever you want to do at whatever time you want to do it. From the last relationship that ended, you must have learned some valuable lessons that will eventually be useful to you in your subsequent relationship(s).   
 


 
It is very possible to panic or get thrown into fear in certain situations. Instead of focusing on fear, you can sway your focus by reframing. This will contribute to helping you make some even-handed and responsible decisions.  
 


 
Anchoring yourself
 


 
This process of creating a neurological connection between the ringing of a bell and the attitude of salivating is known as a conditioned response. These responses to stimulus anchors can also be used on humans.  
 


 
The result of anchoring oneself is that a person gets to link a desired positive emotional response with a specific sensation or a phrase. When you can select a positive emotion or a thought and intentionally link it to a gesture, you will be able to trigger the anchor at every point you feel low, so you will be able to change your feelings immediately. Here are some ways of anchoring yourself:  
 


 
Take note of the feelings you want to experience. It could be a feeling of happiness, confidence, calmness, etc. Decide on the part of your body where you would love to place the anchor. This could be a certain action like pulling your earlobe, squeezing your fingernail or touching your knuckle. With this physical touch, you will be able to trigger the desired positive feeling whenever you want to. This has nothing to do with the part of the body that you have chosen, all that needs to be done is create that connection between the unique touch and the feelings. You do not have to make this touch for anything else besides the feeling.  
 


 
Think about a certain time in the past when you had the same feelings you are experiencing at a given moment. Reminisce on the time you felt the same way then float into your body by looking through your eyes so that you will be able to replay and relive the memory.   
 


 
Once this is done, you can make some adjustments to your body language to match with the memory and the state of mind. When you are reliving the memory, make sure you can see, hear and feel everything the way you remember it. If you can do this, the feeling will come back, just as it will when you tell a funny story from the past to your friend.   
 


 
Keep in mind that you will typically begin to laugh over again as you tell the story because while you get into the story, you will create some mental association to the story and relive the experience.  
 


 
While you are going back to this memory, pull, touch or squeeze that part of your body that you had earlier chosen. If you do this, you will notice that the feeling will heighten while you are reliving the memory. Once the emotional state gets to its peak and begins to wear off, you can then release the touch.  
 


 
This touch will create a certain neurological response that will be a trigger for the state whenever you touch that spot again. So, in order to feel this state again, all you need to do is to touch yourself again in the same way.  
 


 
To get an even stronger response, you can think of another memory from the past where you had that same feeling and go back and relive it from your own perspective. Anchor that same state as you have done before. Every time you add another memory, this anchor will gain more potency so that it will trigger an even stronger response.  
 


 
Whenever you feel the need to change your mood, you can revisit this technique. 
 


 
Hypnotists make use of NLP to get a great selection of methods that they can make use of during the process of hypnosis. When the process of NLP is being used, the hypnotist will use thought patterns that are causing problems for the subject. This will save both parties a lot of time as opposed to the use of the process of suggestion.   
 


 
Let's take the process used in stress relief or in dealing with excessive appetite for example. This thought pattern will be used to get rid of any problem that the subject is facing, and when it is used by a certified hypnotist or a psychologist it will prove to be a very effective technique.
 


 













 
Chapter 13: Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The power of persuasion means nothing more than using mental abilities to form words and feelings used to convince other people to do things they may or may not want to do spontaneously. Some people are more capable to persuade than others and some people are easier to persuade then others.    
 


 
The ease of persuading other people is directly connected to their current mental or emotional state. Someone who is lonely or tired is easier to persuade, simply because their defense mechanism is lowered. Someone who is momentarily needy may be easier to persuade than someone who has a strong sense of self-worth. People who are at a low point in their lives are easy prey for others who might try to persuade them to do something they might not usually do.    
 


 
The first step in persuasion involves the idea of reciprocating. If a person does something nice for someone else, then the receiving usually feels the need to do something good in return.  
 


 
As an example, if someone helps their elderly neighbor carry in groceries from the car, that neighbor might feel obligated to bake homemade cookies for that person. A coworker who helps complete a project is more likely to receive assistance when it is needed. Many people do nice things for others all the time without expecting anything in return. The person who does nice things for people and then mentions some little favor that can be done in return may be someone to watch closely.  He or she lacks in genuine purpose.  
 


 
There are ways to improve the power of persuasion. Just like any other trait, it can be made stronger by following a few strategies and by regular practice.    
 


 
Did you know that your body speaks more eloquently than words? Body language is at work constantly whether you are aware of it or not. When you want to master the art of persuasion, you need not only to understand (and read accurately) body language, but also learn to use it to drive your point home.     
 


 
Body language is a mix of hand and facial gestures, posture and overall appearance. You can decide to use these to your advantage and you will make people to do what you want without them realizing that you are actually controlling the outcome of the discussion.     
 


 
Why people are persuasive    
 


 
What makes a person convincing? Why are they persuasive, and you aren’t? There is no single, short answer to that question.     
 


 
Confidence is the absolute most important aspect when it comes to persuasion.  
 


 
There’s no doubt it’s been scientifically proven that it’s easier to persuade people when you’re confident, when you believe in yourself and trust the message you are passing to the other person. That’s because through your attitude, people convince themselves you you’re an authority on the topic and they’ll listen to you, because they have no knowledge or experience, but you seem to have both.     
 


 
In this framework, it’s also crucial to understand that humans are doubtful creatures. We’re not very confident and we don’t really believe in our own abilities or even experience, so when someone comes along and appears to be confident and to know more, we follow them like a herd of dim sheep.     
 


 
Persuasion is just as much about the impression you leave upon people as it is about your actual skill. Like many other times in life, appearances are more “real” than actual reality, because that is all other people will ever know about you. It doesn’t matter if deep inside, you’re insecure or you don’t really think you know what you’re doing.     
 


 
On the outside, you’re this dazzling, confident creature that can persuade anyone into anything because you’ve mastered all the important contributing factors: confidence, eye contact, body language, manner of speaking, tone, facial expressions, as well as your general demeanor.    
 


 
Confidence    
 


 
How do you think so many scammers make a living?  
 


 
Now, I’m not advocating that you try to trick people, but I am simply suggesting that we have to work on our confidence. You’ll notice that every single person you find convincing has some sort of authoritative stance. It’s like their presence demands attention and respect.     
 


 
Eye contact    
 


 
Eye contact is a classic, natural display of dominance. It’s a technique that’s even present in the animal kingdom. Be extremely mindful when it comes to “using your eyes” since they are the first tool you can use during an encounter and the way you decide to use them can determine the outcome of such a meeting. Eye contact can intimidate, eye contact can attract and push your imagination, create desire and interest, use them consciously and effectively.     
 


 
Body language    
 


 
Do you know how often people underestimate body language, or just ignore it outright? Body language is an incredible tool for persuasion. People are always advised to display open body language, like facing your audience, making sure not to keep your arms crossed against your chest, keep your palms open, and all sorts of little tips that we’ll discuss at length.     
 


 
What you maybe haven’t heard is that in order to be effectively persuasive, you also need to take note of and use the body language of the person you’re talking to.   You need to observe carefully your counterparty and by detecting his/her body language predict his/her attitude towards you in real time. 
 


 
Manner of speaking    
 


 
Your choice of words is overwhelmingly important when attempting to convince someone, because it must be very deliberate. There’s a clear strategy behind verbal persuasion, and it relies on appealing to the person’s emotions.     
 


 
The way you speak and what you say are both equally important, because even though your message may be perfect, if the delivery is lacking, it won’t do much good. We’ve already established that speaking with authority is half the battle, but you also have to speak the right words, in order to win it.  If your aim is to persuade, go to the meeting fully prepared about the topic and try some rehearsal before that, so you will have the possibility to observe the counterparty attitude and response while you are talking, in real time, and adjust your speech and body language. 
 


 
Tone    
 


 
Continuing on the idea that the way you say things is vastly important, let’s talk about tone and why it matters. In fact, I lied when I said tone and message are equally important: tone weighs much more on a person’s impression.     
 


 
If someone has a very somber voice, a serious, measured tone, and an equally severe facial expression, it almost doesn’t matter what they’re saying – you’re going to assume it’s grave and important; the actual words or what they mean matters less. A joke told with a serious tone is not perceived as funny at all.     
 


 
Facial expressions    
 


 
Facial expression goes hand in hand with body language and eye contact and is similarly important to tonality. Creating the impression that you mean what you say involves your face, because it will be the very first to betray you or, on the contrary, help you enforce your message.     
 


 
What you can obtain through persuasion    
 


 
Persuasion is a very powerful and very valuable skill that everyone should have and learn how to master and use in a positive constructive way. It comes in handy throughout your life in virtually any aspect of your existence, from sweet-talking your way into free movie tickets to convincing your boss you deserve a raise.     
 


 
Your relationship with your spouse    
 


 
Far from being unfair or manipulative, having the ability to convince your significant other can actually improve your relationship because you can have less discussions about your disagreements and lack of compromise. Now you can use all that extra time and energy implementing your superior decisions.    
 


 
Your relationship with your kids    
 


 
Persuasion skills and indisputable power and authority to convince your kids to actually listen to you and follow your advice is an essential educational tool. Master daily affirmation about your parenting abilities, work on your confidence when talking to them, use eye contact and body language in the most difficult moments to attract their attention and stop their negative behavior. You will realize that your mental attitude will lead and guide your body language. Guide your thinking and master it to obtain the highest level of positive persuasion with your children. 
 


 
Your relationship with your friends    
 


 
We all have that one friend who always makes terrible life choices and no one can get through to them and steer them towards the right path…except you, that is. If you have influence and persuasion skills, don’t keep them for yourself. Use them for good, not evil.     
 


 
Get paid what you deserve    
 


 
Negotiating falls under persuasion, absolutely everyone should master this skill. You need to have the ability to convince your ‘opponent’ that you deserve an increase and you should have it.    
 


 
This advice mostly applies to the workplace, where – let’s be real – no boss will ever willingly part with their money and hand it over to you. This is the reason why you must convince them to do it. You’ve earned it, you deserve it, and it’s rightfully yours. You have to ask for it, but you have to know how, and persuasive skills help with that.     
 


 
Start with your daily affirmations about the concept of abundance and being enough to prepare your mindset; “you deserve more and are made for more” and it is just to your counterparty, your boss, to accept it and see it. Master daily affirmations to prepare your subconscious mind to fully accept this idea you are more and deserve more.  
 


 
Prepare yourself for the meeting and visualize the situation, get emotionally involved, experience the conversation and feel it, this will help you prepare to get out of your comfort zone.   
 


 
Work carefully on your body language, make straight eye contact at the beginning of the meeting and use a soft but precise tone, outdistance the words, the sentence and prepare the speech so that the “opponent” will perceive and feel your confidence.  
 


 
Earn the trust and respect of your boss    
 


 
You can accomplish that by becoming their go-to person. Offer your bright ideas, come up with solutions to problems the company is facing, persuade them to implement your suggestions and that they’re the contribution the company needs right now. In time, you will reap the rewards when your boss comes to consult with you first.     
 


 
Be a good leader to your colleagues    
 


 
Your persuasive abilities will prove to be invaluable and will bring you to a position like this if you want people to respect you, your work, and your ideas. It should be obvious for everyone that your way is the right way and there will be minimal dissent if you have the necessary influence over them.    
 


 
Get important information    
 


 
If you can talk the talk well enough, you can basically convince anyone to tell you anything. Preferred customer sales dates from sales attendants, and even gossip from your friends, you get the idea. Sweet talk yourself into perks and valuable info.   Follow the steps above listed and when it comes to the meeting with people, remember not to ask direct questions, but let me talk about the topic and be aligned with the interlocutor without being assertive or disruptive about the topic otherwise the person will never open up and a rapport will never form.
 


 
 
 


 
How to Persuade People
    
 


 
 
 


 
The ability to influence someone during a conversation and make them take a decision is necessary in order to become one of the most important people in the world today.  
 


 
This ability is useful in business negotiations, and in everyday life.    
 


 
In general, the impact on people is not so obvious. The basic idea is that people’s behavior is often guided by their subconscious simple desires. And to achieve your goals, you need to understand the simple desires of people, and then make your interlocutor passionately wish for something.   
 


 
It should be noted that in order to influence people you should NOT try to impose or force them to make a hasty decision, or to go for something they did not even consider.  
 


 
The first step is to try to reach a mutually beneficial cooperation.  
 


 
If you are willing to put yourself in the shoes of another person from whom you want to get something and understand his/her thoughts, then you do not have to worry about your relationship with the person.  
 


 
The secret lies in the ability to help the self-affirmation of the interlocutor.  
 


 
What does this mean? 
 


 
We have to make sure that your companion looks decent in his own eyes. He needs to feel at ease, you need to be able to establish a rapport whereby the person feels she/he can trust you. The person needs to feel she/he can trust you and establish a rapport, that he can open up himself to his interlocutor without feeling that the latter has a specific expectation on him. 
 


 
Moreover, in order to have influence and control over another person, you must know their personality and behavioral traits. Most importantly, learn how to use this knowledge to master the specific methods and techniques of influence and control the behavior of the other, on the basis of his outlook, character, personality type and other important psychological features.    
 


 
To help people to look beyond the limits of consciousness, professionals use a variety of methods and techniques. One of the most effective of these is hypnosis.  
 


 
This method can directly influence the psyche, whose essence consists of the introduction of human narrowed state of consciousness, makes it is easy to control someone else's suggestion and management.    
 


 
The ability to manage people, primarily, is to combine the knowledge of human psychology and their personal characteristics. They help to change their own behavior so that this change will cause the desired reaction in others.  
 


 
Try to be more observant while communicating; it will help you better understand the individual psychological characteristics of the interlocutor. Based on this knowledge, try using the following methods and techniques that will help you manage people correctly and efficiently.
 


 













 
Chapter 14: Deception
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
This type of dark psychology shares some similarities to manipulation in the sense that a lot of deceptions are disseminated to achieve the desirable. 
 


 
 
 


 
What is Deception?
   
 


 
How can deception be defined? Deception, alongside subterfuge, mystification, feign, deceit and beguilement, is an art employed by an agent to spread beliefs in the subject which are untrue, or truths coated with lies. Deception involves numerous things, example dissimulation, sleight of mind, suppression, cover-up, propaganda etc. The agents win the favor of the subjects, they trust him and are unsuspecting of his propensity to be dubious. He is able to control the subject's mind having won their confidence and trust. The subjects have no doubts on the agent's words, in fact the subjects trust the agent completely and possibly plan their affairs based on the agent's statements.    
 


 
The deception practiced by the agent can have grave consequential effects if discovered by the subjects. How? The subjects will not be disposed to hearing his words, neither will they accept them anymore, no wonder the agent must be skilled at the deception technique. He must create an escape route to cover up if things boomerang and still retain the trust his subjects have in him.  
 


 
Deception breaks the laws that govern relationships and it has been known to affect negatively the hopes that come with relationships. Deception does occur every now and then and this could result in feelings of doubt as well as disloyalty among the two people who are in the relationship. Nearly everyone desires to have an honest discussion with their partner; if they find out that their partner has however been dishonest, they, in turn, need to find out how to make use of confusion and distraction so as to get the dependable and honest information that they are in need of. Trust, on the other hand, would be lost in the relationship, making it hard to restore the relationship to its former glory.  
 


 
The individual on the receiving end of both dishonesty and betrayal would always wonder about the things their partner was telling them, thinking about whether the story was true or false. As a result of this new doubt, most relationships will be brought to an end once the agent realizes their partner's dishonesty.  
 


 
 
 


 
Types of Deception
   
 


 
Deception is a type of communication based on omissions and falsehood so as to convince the subject of the world that best fits the agent. Seeing that there is a need for communication to take place, there will likewise be various kinds of deception that could take place. As per the Interpersonal Deception Theory, there are 5 different sorts of deception. A few of these have been revealed in other types of mind control, showing there can be some similarities.   
 


 
The 5 major types of deception include:   
 


 
1. Lies: This occurs when the agent manufactures information or provides information that is not similar to the truth. They will give this information to the unsuspecting individual as the truth and the individual will then see this lie to be fact indeed. However, this can be unsafe as the person being given this false information would have no idea about the falsehood; most likely, if the subject understood that they were being given information that was not true, they would not be on talking terms with the agent and no deception would have occurred;  
 


 
2. Equivocations: This is the point at which the agent will make statements that are differing, unclear, or not direct, such that the subject becomes confused and does not understand what is going on. Also, it can help the agent to preserve their reputation, saving face if the subject later returns to blame them for the falsehood;   
 


 
3. Concealments: It is the most frequently used form of deception. It refers to when the agent leaves out information that is related or critical to the situation on purpose, or they display any such behavior that would cover up information that is of importance to the subject for that exact situation. The agent won't have lied straightforwardly to the subject, they will, however, have ensured that the vital information required never gets to the subject;  
 


 
4. Exaggeration: Exaggeration occurs when the agent emphasizes too much on a fact or stretch the truth just a little so as to twist the story to suit them. Although the agent may not directly be lying to the subject, they will manipulate the situation such that it appears as though it is a bigger deal than it actually is, or they may twist the truth to make the subject do whatever they need them to do;  
 


 
5. Understatements: This is the inverse of the exaggeration tool in the sense that the agent will present part of the fact as less important, telling the subject that an event is less of a deal than it actually is when in it really could be what decides whether the subject gets the opportunity to graduate or gets a huge promotion. As such, the agent will be able to return to the subject saying they had no idea how huge a deal their omission was, they get to keep their reputation leaving the subject to look petty if they protest.  
 


 
The above are only some of the forms of deception that there are. To reach their final goal, the agent of deception will make use of any means that is available to them, same as what happens in other types of mind control. These methods mentioned are however not limiting, as the agent would use any means to get to their goal.  
 


 
The agent of deception (who is going to be good at what he does) can be dangerous since the subject will be unable to know what is the truth or lie.   
 


 
 
 


 
Reasons for Deception
  
 


 
It has been confirmed by researchers that there are 3 major reasons for deceptions found in intimate relationships. These consist of motives focused on partner, motives focused in self-focused, and motives focused on a relationship.   
 


 
In the case of the partner focused motives, the agent will use deception to keep their partner from harm. Also, they could make use of falsehood to save their partner's relationship with an outsider, thereby protecting the subject from worry, or keep the subject's confidence intact. This reason for deception is often seen to be of benefit to the relationship and socially respectful.   
 


 
In comparison with some of the other reasons for deception, this one is not as bad. If the agent finds out about something terrible that the subject's closest friend said about them, the agent may remain quiet about it. Although this is a type of deception, it not only saves the subject's friendship but also keeps the subject from feeling terrible for themselves. This is the type of deception that is often found in most relationships and also if found out, might not cause a lot of damage. To protect their partner, a larger percentage of couples would use this form of deception to protect their partner.  
 


 
The self-focused motive for deception is not thought to be as noble as the partner focused motive for deception, and as such, is not as acceptable as the other methods. Rather than stressing over the subject and how they are doing, the agent is going to simply consider how they are doing, and about their very own self-image. Here, the agent makes use of deception so as to protect the agent from criticism, shame or anger. Using this form of deception in a relationship is typically seen to be a very serious issue and offense than in the case of partner-focused deception. This is because the agent chooses to act in a manner that is self-centered instead of working to protect their relationship or their partner.  
 


 
Lastly, the relationship focused motive of deception. The agent makes use of this form of deception to prevent any harm coming to the relationship basically by staying away from deception relational disturbance and quarrel. This type of deception will either help or harm the relationship depending on the circumstances. This form of deception could be harmful because it makes thing rather complex. For instance, if you do not reveal just how you feel about dinner to prevent a quarrel, this might just help the relationship. Then again, if you keep to yourself the fact that you took part in an extra-marital relationship the situation is only going to become more complex.  
 


 
No matter the motive of deception in the relationship, deception is not advised. The agent is holding back details that may be vital to the subject; when the subject discovers it, distrust in the agent will set in and they are left to ponder what other details the agent is keeping from them. The subject would however, not be too worried for the reason behind the deception, they will simply be vexed that they have not been told some things, causing a split in the relationship. Usually, it is best to stick with truthfulness in the relationship and not encircle yourself with individuals who don't put deception into practice in your social circle.  
 


 
 
 


 
Detecting Deception
   
 


 
An individual that has interest in preventing deception to avoid the mind games that come with it should learn how to detect deception when it is occurring. It is not usually easy to know when deception is going on as there are really no pointers to rely on; except the agent makes a mistake and either tells an obvious lie or says something that the subject knows to be false. While it might be difficult for the agent to mislead the subject for a long period of time, it is something that will usually happen regularly between individuals who know one another.   
 


 
Deception can place a heavy weight on the cognitive thinking of the agent because they will need to find a way to bring to remembrance all the conversations they have had with the subject on the situation, so the story stays believable and dependable. Any mistake will bring the subject to the realization they are being deceived. The stress involved in keeping the story believable, is much, and as such, the agent is very much likely to spill out details that will give the subject a clue that they are being deceived either through nonverbal or verbal signs.   
 


 
It is believed by researchers that detecting deception is a process that is cognitive, fluid, and also complicated and which will regularly differ based on the message that is being passed across. As indicated by the Interpersonal Deception Theory, deception is an iterative and dynamic process of influence between the agent, who attempts to manipulate the information and how they need it with the goal that it varies from the truth, and the subject, who will at that point try to know if the message is true or false. The agent's activities will be in relation to the actions that the subject makes after they get the information. All through this trade, the agent will uncover the nonverbal and verbal information that will signal the subject into the deceit. Eventually, the subject might have the capacity to tell that the agent has been lying to them.     
 


 
It is not all the time that the subject will be able to know the agent is deceiving them. Aldert Vrij, a notable deception scholar, said that there are no specific nonverbal behaviors related with deception. There are, however, some nonverbal behaviors that can be related with the act of deception. These signs can be displayed also when other behaviors are present, making it hard to know whether the agent is being deceptive, except they tell a complete lie.  
 


 
Mark Frank, another scholar of deception, suggests another idea of deception that contains how it very well may be detected at the subject's cognitive level. When deception takes place, an agent requires a cognizant behavior that is intentional. Hence, being attentive to words and focusing on the nonverbal behavior that is going on are both basic when trying to decide whether or not you are being deceived. If somebody asks a question and the agent isn't happy to answer it straightforwardly, rather makes use of some type of disturbance, with a poor logical structure, repeats words, and uses less time answering that exact question, they are most definitely lying.   
 


 
Essentially, there are only a few signs that can be used to try and find out when deception is taking place. There are a couple of nonverbal signs that may be when an agent is being deceptive; they may, however, have some other issue, for example, anxiety or shyness.   
 


 
 
 


 
Primary Components of Deception
   
 


 
Most times, the subject won't realize that these components have taken place except if the agent has told an obvious lie or been caught being deceptive. These are parts that will be later known if the agent is making use of the deception process rightly. The 3 primary parts of deception are camouflage, disguise, and simulation.  
 


 
Camouflage   
 


 
The major component of deception is camouflage. It is the point at which the agent is attempting to hide the truth in such a way that the subject is unaware of the fact they are missing. Usually, this method is used when the agent gives information that is only partly true. Until these facts are uncovered one way or the other, the subject will not know that camouflaging has taken place. The agent will be so talented in hiding facts, with the goal that it is not easy for the subject to realize the deception has taken place by chance.  
 


 
Disguise   
 


 
This is yet is another component which can be found in the process of deception. In this case, the agent tries to pass across the idea that they are something or another person. This occurs in such instances when the agent holds back details about themselves, for example, their genuine name, what they do for a living, the people they have been with, and what they do when they go out. This is more than simply changing the clothing that a person wears in a play or film; when disguise is employed in the process of deception, the agent is attempting to deceive the agent by changing their entire personality and appearing as somebody else.  
 


 
There are quite a few models that can show the use of disguise in the deception process. The first is in relation to the agent masking themselves, often as someone else, with the goal that they are not recognized. The agent may do this so as to be accepted into a group of individuals that do not like him, change their persona to make somebody like them, or for the purpose of achieving their selfish interests. Now and again, the word disguise can simply be referring to the agent masking the real nature of a proposal with expectations of hiding an impact that is not agreeable with that proposal. Most times this type of disguise is found in propaganda or political spin.   
 


 
Disguise can be harmful for the reason that it is concealing the genuine nature of what is happening. When important details are held back from the subject, it clouds their thinking since they don't have the correct information to settle on logical decisions. While the subject may imagine that they are settling on logical decisions all on their own, the agent has, however, removed important information that may change the subject's decision.   
 


 
Simulation   
 


 
This is the third component of deception. Simulation involves presenting false information to the subject. Three methods that can be used in simulation include; mimicry, fabrication, and distraction.  
 


 
In mimicry, otherwise defined as the copying of another model, the agent will without thinking be giving a picture of something that is like themselves. They may have a plan that is like another person's and rather than giving credit to the other person, they will say that the plan is all their doing. This type of simulation can happen regularly through sound-related, visual, and other methods.   
 


 
Fabrication is yet another means of deception. Here, the agent takes something found in reality and changes it until it becomes different. They may tell a tale that did not take place or add to a true story to make it better or worse. While the heart of the story might be true, agreed they got a poor score on a test, it will have some additional things put in, for example the teacher gave them a poor score intentionally. While in reality, the agent got a poor score because they failed to read.  
 


 
Lastly, distraction is another type of simulation in deception. In this case, the agent makes an effort to get the subject to concentrate on other things, but not the truth; usually done by offering the subject with something that may be more tempting than the truth that has been hidden from them.  
 


 
For instance, if a cheating spouse thinks the wife is beginning to suspect, he may bring home a precious stone ring to distract her from the matter even for a short while. The problem with this method is that it is not usually long-lasting and as such, the agent has to look for a new way to trick the subject if they are to keep the process going.
 


 











 




 
Chapter 15: The Role of Defense
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
To avoid falling victim to manipulators, you have to build your defenses so that you are prepared for any manipulative strategies that they may try to use on you. The best way to build your defenses is by taking steps to improve your self-esteem and your willpower. However, as a point of caution, you should be very careful about how you build your defenses because you don’t want to create restrictions that will keep you from living a fulfilled life. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, as you try to guard against manipulation, you can’t act out of fear. You can’t hide from the world just to avoid scenarios where someone might want to take advantage of you. Remember that the world is full of people with dark personality traits who may harbor malicious intentions, so acting out of fear won’t protect you from anyone. In fact, it will just make you more of a target. As you build your defenses, make sure that start on the premise that you are willing to confront manipulators head on, and you will never run away or recoil. If you act out of fear, you lose by default. 
 


 
 
 


 
The steps to raise self-esteem: To help you build your defenses, we will discuss the eight steps that you have to take in order to raise your self-esteem and to increase your willpower by extension.  
 


 
 
 


 
Acceptance
 
 


 
Acceptance is about assenting to the reality of a given situation. It’s about recognizing that a certain condition or process is what it is, even if it’s characterized by high levels of discomfort and negativity. It’s about consciously submitting to the fact that something cannot be changed, and that its reality is not subject to interpretation. It’s about making peace with the situation that you are in. 
 


 
 
 


 
Acceptance is the opposite of denial. Even the most rational among us tend to be in denial about lots of things in their lives, which are settled facts in real sense. Denial can be a coping mechanism, one that can keep us from being overwhelmed by the reality of a given situation. However, denial does us more harm than good, because unless we can accept something, we can’t change it, and we will be stuck looking for alternative interpretations and explanations for our prevailing circumstances.
 


 
 
 


 
Without acceptance, the door remains wide open for malicious people to exploit us. Take the example of a patient who is told that he/she is terminally ill. After seeking the opinions of several medical professionals and getting the same diagnosis, the patient is still left with the choice of either accepting or denying the situation. The one who accepts it will make peace, and try to make the best out of what little time he has. The one who stays in denial will become susceptible to tricksters who may offer "alternative cures," and he may end up losing all his savings paying such people so that in the end, he leaves his family with nothing. That is an extreme example, but it perfectly illustrates why acceptance is important in avoiding manipulation, even if the reality may seem too painful to accept. 
 


 
 
 


 
The most crucial form of acceptance is self-acceptance. It refers to the state of being satisfied with yourself, the way you currently are. Self-acceptance is a kind of covenant that you make with yourself, to validate, support, and appreciate who you are instead of constantly criticizing yourself and wishing you were someone else. Most people have trouble accepting themselves as they are. We are all in a constant strive for self-improvement. We want to be more successful, to be wealthier, to be more attractive, or to be perceived more positively by others. Even the most accomplished among us have issues with self-acceptance. 
 


 
 
 


 
In many ways, the desire to be a better version of yourself can be seen as a positive thing; it can help you study harder in school, work harder to earn a promotion at work or exercise more to get in shape. However, the problem is there is always room for improvement, so no matter how high you ascend, the dissatisfaction will always be there, and it will make you vulnerable to manipulation by people who want to take advantage of your desires.
 


 
 
 


 
To defend against manipulation, you have to accept your reality, and you have to accept yourself. People tend to think that if they accept themselves, they won’t try to improve – that couldn’t be further from the truth. Accepting yourself means owning up to your flaws, and that gives you control over your life. With self-acceptance, attempts at self-improvement would come from within, so when you decide to change, you will be doing it for yourself and not for anyone else.
 


 
 
 


 
Increase awareness
 
 


 
Increasing your awareness means having a higher level of alertness when it comes to understanding what’s going on in your environment. It means paying close attention to your surroundings, and to the way, people behave around you. The higher your level of awareness, the better you will be when it comes to adapting to your surroundings and understanding the motivations of the people you interact with. 
 


 
 
 


 
When you become more aware, you will be able to catch on quick when people try to manipulate you. Many of us tend to be preoccupied with our own thoughts that we hardly ever notice the cues of the people we interact with. We tend to live life on autopilot, so when other people try to seize control over our lives, we only notice it when it’s too late. If you increase your awareness, you will be equipped with the skills necessary to identify all the red flags, and you will be able to stop most manipulators on their tracks before they can do any real harm. 
 


 
 
 


 
The first step towards increasing your awareness is to learn about the tendencies of manipulative people. Reading this book puts you ahead of the curve; you now know enough to be able to spot people with ill motives, but you should understand that the worst kinds of manipulators are very good at concealing their motives, so you have to keep working on increasing your awareness. 
 


 
 
 


 
To be truly aware of manipulative people, you have to approach all interactions with some levels of skepticism. We are not telling you to turn into a paranoid person who doesn't let anyone in; we are just saying that you should take a deeper look each person you interact with. Try to study their body language and their words, and try to see if they are trying to hide something. 
 


 
 
 


 
Apart from increasing your awareness, you have to increase your self-awareness as well. Many people confuse those two things, but them entirely different concepts. Self-awareness is about understanding yourself. It’s about having a clear concept of your own personality. You have to examine yourself and figure out what your strengths and weaknesses are, what your values and motivations are, and what kind of thoughts and emotions you are likely to have in specific situations. Self-awareness helps you understand both who you are and how other people perceive you. 
 


 
 
 


 
Self-awareness works as a defense against manipulation because when you know who you truly are, it becomes more difficult for someone to alter your thoughts and perceptions. If you have strong and well-articulated values, it becomes harder for a manipulator to get you to abandon those values. People who like self-awareness are more likely to be gaslighted or to be subjected to other forms of mind control. 
 


 
 
 


 
If you end up in a relationship with a manipulative person, self-awareness can help you keep your identity. Manipulators will try to tell you what to think and how to behave, but if you are self-aware, you will experience cognitive dissonance, and your brain will push back against any attempts at manipulation. 
 


 
 
 


 
Detach with love
 
 


 
Detaching with love is a defense against manipulation that is most commonly used by people who have loved ones who suffer from substance abuse problems. Even though it was conceptualized to help people deal with addicts, it can also work when you are dealing with manipulators. 
 


 
 
 


 
Detaching with love is about showing love and compassion for others without taking responsibility for their actions. For example, if you have a family member who is a drug addict, the way it works is that you try to support them and encourage them to get clean, but you let them make their own decisions, and you let them suffer the consequences of their actions. If the addict doesn’t come home, you don’t waste your time looking for them in the seedy parts of the city, you stay at home, and you do the things that benefit you and make you happy. 
 


 
 
 


 
The point of detaching with love is to stop trying to control other people's lives, even if you are doing it for their own good. The idea is that you accept that people are different from you and that they have their own free will.
 


 
 
 


 
Detaching from love can defend you from manipulation in many ways. There are manipulators who want to exploit you by making you responsible for them. We have mentioned several times in the book that some malicious people will take the submissive position in a relationship because they want your world to revolve around them. They want you to give them all your attention; that is how they control you. 
 


 
 
 


 
When you detach with love, you will learn to stop fixing everyone’s problems. So, when the manipulator tries to play the victim in order to gain your sympathy, you will keep doing whatever is in your best interest, and you will tell him or her to take responsibility for his or her own actions. 
 


 
 
 


 
Some manipulators may take up self-destructive habits because they want to dominate you by making you clean up after them. When they do this, you can detach with love by letting them follow the paths they have taken, no matter where they lead them. If they are causing you harm, you can get away from them, but leave your door open. If they find the right path in the future and regain control over their own lives, you can let them in again. You have to make it very clear, through your words and actions that you will let them direct their own lives, and you won’t take any responsibility for them.  
 


 
 
 


 
Detaching with love is about accepting others for who they are, and respecting them enough to let them be in charge of changing their own lives. When you feel responsible for someone, and he makes a choice that harms you both, often times, you will react with fear, anger, or anxiety. To detach with love, you have to learn to let go of those negative emotions.  
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators count on the fact that you will react in a predictable way to their machinations, but when you detach with love, you learn to calm yourself down and think about your role in the other person's life before you take any sort of action. This will keep you from falling into the traps that manipulators will set for you.
 


 
 
 


 
Detaching with love builds your self-esteem because it allows you to put your own needs ahead of those of the people that try to manipulate you.  
 


 
 
 


 
Build self-esteem
 
 


 
You can defend against manipulation by building your self-esteem in the old school way; using self-help techniques. People tend to discount classic self-help techniques, but they actually work. They won’t solve all your problems, but they'll make you feel worthy enough and give you the strength to resist many forms of manipulation. 
 


 
 
 


 
The oldest self-help technique in the book is to try to be nicer to yourself. This usually involves being kind to yourself and being your own cheerleader. It also involved challenging the negative thought and assumptions that you make every day. It also involved treating yourself as you would treat a close friend. 
 


 
 
 


 
If your friend had certain fears and doubts and he came to you for advice, you would try to tell him the truth, but you won’t be harsh with him. Similarly, you should embrace your reality even if it’s uncomfortable, but you shouldn’t beat yourself up even if you have made mistakes.  Even when things are gloomy, you should try to talk yourself up. 
 


 
 
 


 
We all have to draw strength from somewhere. That means that if you don’t try to build your own self-esteem, you will look for external sources of strength and motivation, but the problem with that is that people have their own interests and agendas, and your wellbeing isn’t always their biggest priority. When you look for strength from external sources, you open yourself up for manipulation. 
 


 
 
 


 
You can also build your self-esteem by avoiding comparing yourself with other people. Manipulators are very good at preying on your desires. When you desire the things that other people have, manipulators see this as an opportunity to gain control over you. Most people who end up getting conned are usually pulled in because they are blinded by their desires, and they want what other people have. 
 


 
 
 


 
To build your self-esteem, you have to do your own thing. You should pursue your own interests and create your own goals. Never live your life by measuring it against someone else’s. That is a surefire way of obliterating your self-esteem, introducing negative emotions into your life, and opening the door for all sorts of predatory characters. 
 


 
 
 


 
You can also build your self-esteem by being careful about the kind of company you keep. Surround yourself with positive people who make you happy, and try to keep away from the kind of people who are constantly negative, or those who unnerves you.
 


 
 
 


 
You can also build your self-esteem by exercising more. Studies show that when we exercise, we are more motivated, more confident, and we feel more in control of our lives. Working out makes our bodies release feel-good hormones, which can help boost our self-esteem.
 


 
 
 


 
Change reactions
 
 


 
To defend against manipulation, there is one important thing that you need to realize; the only person you can control is you. You have absolutely no control over what other people might say, or how they might act. Your reaction is the only thing that is within your control. Even if you are a victim, and someone limits your choices considerably, at the end of the day, the power to choose how to act or react is still in your control. 
 


 
 
 


 
Think of all the civil rights icons you learned about in school; all of these people were victimized in one way or another, but they came out on top because of the way they chose to react to that victimization. So, to defend against manipulation, you have to change the way you react to the words and actions of manipulators. 
 


 
 
 


 
First, when someone does something to set you off, try to approach that situation with calm rationality. Focus on resolving the conflict instead of debating whose fault it is. When you react with anger in response to an accusation, or if you start passing the blame back and forth, you are playing right into the hand of the manipulator. When you change the way you react, you will be creating your own rules for the game that the manipulator is trying to play, and that will keep you from falling into his trap.
 


 
 
 


 
Never lead with your emotions. Instead, you should practice thinking things through before you react. In other words, instead of reacting instantaneously, train yourself to respond in a calculated way. When someone upsets you, refrain from lashing out angrily, and try to figure out what their motivations are. You can manage your reactions by using the same techniques that are used in anger management therapy; take a deep breath and weight the situation before speaking out.  
 


 
 
 


 
It may not seem so, but the simple act of taking a deep breath can do a lot to center you and to help you react better in any stressful situation. When you take a breath, it puts some distance between your reaction and the trigger situation, and that small window of time is enough for your brain to deliberate on things and to create a better response.
 


 
 
 


 
You also have to understand that things only have the meanings you give them. When a manipulator calls you names or yells at you angrily, it’s completely up to you to decide whether you’ll let it roll off you like water, or whether you will internalize it. It’s true that people only treat you the way you let them. 
 


 
 
 


 
You can change your reaction by changing the questions that run through your mind when you are in a negative situation. If someone is attacking you, the questions running through your mind could be: Why is he doing this? Who does he think he is? You can try to change those questions so that you start thinking: How can I quickly resolve this? How can I keep my dignity here? When you ask yourself the right questions, you have a better chance of finding a proper way to react. 
 


 
 
 


 
Be assertive
 
 


 
Someone can only successfully manipulate you if you are not willing to stand your ground and be assertive. Some psychologists have pointed out that being assertive is the middle ground between being passive and being aggressive. Aggressive people bully others to get what they want, and passive people let others walk all over them, so they don't get what they want. Assertive people, on the other hand, stand strong and ask for what they want in a firm and diplomatic way.  
 


 
 
 


 
When you are assertive, you communicate in a way that's respectful towards the needs, feelings, and opinions of others, but you are unwavering in advocating for your own needs. You make requests that are reasonable, and you try to avoid infringing on the rights of others. In case of a dispute, you seek a compromise that is objectively fair to everyone. You draw clear boundaries, and you let people know when they are crossing those boundaries.
 


 
 
 


 
The most crucial aspect of assertiveness is being a good communicator. Assertive people have voices that are relaxed but firm. They speak fluently, and they come across as sincere. When they have to work with others, they are cooperative, and they contribute in a constructive way. They don't raise their voices when things get heated; they stay steady, unshaken, and unfailingly logical. 
 


 
 
 


 
Assertive people are also good at using non-verbal cues to communicate effectively. They maintain eye contact with the people they are talking too. They have open body stances and good posture, which helps project strength and confidence. They smile when they are pleased, and they frown when they are displeased.  
 


 
 
 


 
Assertive people are very direct, and they know what they want from the very beginning. As a result, it’s very difficult for you to manipulate them. Manipulators like to use mind games and other little tricks to conceal their ill intentions, but assertive people will cut through all that by enforcing straight and clear two-way communication. When ordinary people suspect that they are being manipulated, they may keep those suspicions to themselves, but assertive people will come out and ask the manipulators what their intentions are; this throws the manipulators off balance and forces them to back off or switch gears. 
 


 
 
 


 
Being assertive means having the skills to communicate with both aggressive people and passive people. They don't let anger or fear keep them from putting their point across when they are dealing with aggressive people. However, when they are dealing with passive people, they also don't let other people's meekness, deter them from demanding what they are entitled to.
 


 
Assertive people are also well attuned with their own emotions. When they are upset, they don’t let their own negative feelings derail them from asserting for themselves in a rational manner.
 


 
 
 


 
Feed yourself
 
 


 
The idea that the food we eat affects our self-esteem has been around for a very long time. There is a lot of scientific evidence that shows a correlation between the type of food we eat and our levels of confidence, as well as our general mental wellbeing. The food you eat has an effect on your mood, your levels of anxiety, and how you feel about yourself as a person.
 


 
 
 


 
When we lack the right balance of nutrients in our bodies, it affects the levels of certain hormones, and as a result, we experience a shift in our moods. That explains why we tend to be more active and stimulated when we consume sugar, coffee, or foods with high levels of carbohydrates. There are also other foods that make us feel lethargic when we eat them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Some researchers have found out that when we fail to take in enough vitamins, fatty acid, and certain mineral, and omega three oils, we could experience depression. Because of their ability to keep depression at bay, these foods are referred to as "mood-boosting foods." 
 


 
 
 


 
Carbohydrates are usually broken into glucose, which is used as energy in the brain and in the muscles. If we don't eat enough carbohydrates, we will lack the energy to concentrate and to make good judgments, and that can affect our self-esteem and make us more susceptible to manipulation. On the flip side, eating lots of carbohydrates lead us to gain weight, and that can have a negative effect on our self-esteem. So, if positive self-esteem is your goal, you need to eat the right amount of carbohydrate; don't kick them off your diet, but also don't overindulge in them. Try to eat carbohydrate from whole-food sources instead of refined sources. Unrefined carbohydrates release energy slowly and give you a mood boost for much longer while providing you with much-needed fiber. 
 


 
 
 


 
Foods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids prevent low moods and can help keep you from getting depressed. Based on that, some scientists have argued that eating more fish can help improve your self-esteem. As you plan out your diet, you can make sure that you have at least one portion of fish a week. As a point of caution, avoid eating too much fish if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. 
 


 
 
 


 
Foods that are rich in vitamin B, such as spinach, broccoli, meats, eggs, and dairy, have the ability to boost your energy levels and your mood, so they can contribute towards you having a more positive outlook. Vitamin D food sources such as eggs, cereals, and oily fish can increase serotonin levels in your brain and make you feel good about yourself. Of course, you can also get vitamin D from the sun, so letting in the light or talking a walk outside every now and then can be good for your self-esteem as well.
 


 
 
 


 
 Excessive sugar, too much caffeine, and a high amount of alcohol can affect your self-esteem in a negative way. When you have a sugary snack, it increases your blood sugar levels and causes a spike in energy, but that is just momentary. After that, you will experience a "crush." That, combined with the feeling of guilt that comes from consuming "empty calories" can dampen your mood and lower your self-esteem. 
 


 
 
 


 
Caffeine also has a similar effect. It will stimulate you, for a moment and improve your mood, but once it starts wearing off, your mood will go down. 
 


 
 
 


 
Alcohol has the effect of improving your confidence and lowering your inhibitions, which is why it’s referred to as a "social lubricant." However, it is also a depressant, which means that it will make you feel anxious and irritable the following day, and that is bad for your self-esteem. By lowering your inhibitions, alcohol can also make you more susceptible to manipulation. 
 


 
 
 


 
Become autonomous and take control
 
 


 
To increase your self-esteem and to become less susceptible to manipulation, you have to become autonomous and to take control of your own life.  Researchers have found that autonomy is more highly correlated with happiness than any other factor out there. People who are autonomous tend to be more satisfied than those who are wealthy. That is because autonomy represents the core value that makes us human; the ability to exercise free will.  
 


 
 
 


 
In many social sciences, autonomy is defined as the quality of being able to make decisions according to one’s own free will. Since we are social beings, it can be argued that we don’t have absolute free will because the things we do are constrained by the rules of the societies we live in, but the important thing is that autonomy should be characterized by a feeling of freedom. In other words, it’s about being able to do things within being coerced by either internal or external pressures. To put it simply, autonomy is having your own identity, and being the only one that controls it. 
 


 
 
 


 
It’s very easy to lose your autonomy when you are in a relationship with a controlling person. Even if you are part of a couple or a family, autonomy means that you do things because you want to and not because you are obligated to do them. It means that there should be a clear distinction between you and your partner and that everyone should have their goals and ambitions, independent of each other. If you are in a relationship where you are subservient to the other person, then you lack autonomy. 
 


 
 
 


 
To maintain your autonomy and improve your self-esteem, be very careful about who you choose to date, and the people you choose to associate with. Even if you are committed to the person, you have to know at all times what your values are, what you want out of life, and who you are as a person. You need to hold onto those foundational values, and you should be wary of anyone who tries to make you compromise on them. 
 


 
 
 


 
You have to retain control over your life, no matter how much it’s intertwined with someone else’s. If you can’t define yourself, someone else is going to do it for you, and then you will become a mere extension of them. In other words, they will succeed in completely dominating and controlling you. 
 


 
 
 


 
You can take control of your life by setting aside some “me time” for yourself. It’s okay to take care of your family, friends, or partner, but if you let them have all your time, then you lose control over your life, and your identity will disappear. Set some time aside for yourself, and make sure that everyone respects it.
 


 
 
 


 
You also need to draw clear personal boundaries and to learn to say "no" to people. When someone asks you to do something, make an objective assessment of the request; if it adds no value to your life, then turn it down. Manipulative people will want to turn you into their "errand boy," so from the very first time you meet anyone, make sure that you don't let them use you.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 













 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Throughout this book, we have covered many different topics regarding manipulation and what they are or could look like and how to avoid them. But the question of why people manipulate others is still being answered today, with interesting answers. To begin this subject let's look at antiquity. People have been manipulating each other, according to historical records and the earliest bibliography, since the dawn of humans. From as far back as the first Roman emperors, people have been using tricks to play on simple innate human emotions to get what they want from others. By other promising false things, or playing on primal human fears, people have attained a certain great power, via using these simple psychological tricks to their advantage. 
 


 
A lot more is going on when two people meet for the first time than most people pick up on. Many people are so preoccupied with themselves and other thoughts that they would never notice the subtle cues that people are continually giving off, broadcasting their feelings and thoughts. When you know the tricks of the trade when it comes to picking up nonverbal communication and body language, you will be able to read a great deal about people before they even open their mouths to introduce themselves. When you can read the room and size people up, you already have an advantage over anyone else who might be trying to vie for that person’s affection, political support, or sales transaction. It’s all about taking the time it takes to learn and practice in the real world once you’ve decided to undertake the art of dark psychology. It’s impossible to become comfortable with these techniques without observation and practice. You will find that the more confident you are with your strategies, the more comfortable and more natural they will happen, leaving your targets entirely in the dark about what’s going on under the surface.   
 


 













 
BOOK 2
 


 
Manipulation and Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
Introduction
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
We'll be exploring an essential subject in this Book, because of which many people have an interest in psychology. This is a topic of exploitation that we experience all the time in life. I'm unlikely to be wrong if I suggest someone is actively trying to exploit us, and we're trying to control us, as much as possible. And more often than not, we do so unintentionally, intuitively, and often ineptly, because of which our manipulations do not always lead us to the desired result, and just like other people do not always manage to manipulate us effectively. And people embrace endless attempts to exploit one another. Hence understanding this topic is very relevant. We will speak in this document about what coercion is, how it works, how effective it is and what can and should be done,
 


 
Manipulation is a secret psychological tool by which you can force any person to perform the acts that you need against his will and interests, and I emphasize everyone. Yet this is the default concept of coercion. Let us offer a broader and more realistic description of that skill. Manipulation is a psychological weapon which, like other types of weapons, gives an individual the same (and even more significant) advantage over others. You can assault and capture with that weapon, and you can protect and defend it. It leads to survival and development.
 


 
A good manipulator, that is, a person skilfully possessing secret psychological tools, is far more reliable than a person to the teeth who is trained. Why? For what? Because he can encourage the actions, he needs to a variety of people, and thus solve any problems and tasks. And what would a person armed with a weapon rooted in our understanding be able to solve problems and tasks? Only a couple, huh? The strength of a weapon has its limits. Yet there are no limits to the abuse. No exception, you can control all men, both the most ordinary and the most powerful and strong. Your only weakness is capacity.
 


 
The better your abilities in persuasion, the more you can exploit people. There's no restriction to the manipulations themselves-you can exploit anybody. Yet there are no limits to the abuse. No exception, you can control all men, both the most ordinary and the most powerful and strong. Your only weakness is capacity.
 


 
The better your abilities in persuasion, the more you can exploit people. There's no restriction to the manipulations themselves-you can exploit anybody. Yet there are no limits to the abuse. No exception, you can control all men, both the most ordinary and the most powerful and strong. Your only weakness is capacity. The better your abilities in persuasion, the more you can exploit people. There's no restriction to the manipulations themselves-you can influence anybody.
 


 
To somebody, an awful thing, however nice to somebody in manipulation, is people's inability to accept the fact that they are being exploited. When you convince a person that he was a victim of coercion by others, then he will most likely deny it and continue to do what he has done, including showing to himself and you that his decision is his decision and no one is manipulating them. Sometimes, my ego doesn't want to admit that I'm being exploited, although I know for sure it is. My feelings, opinions, acts - can't be entirely free of others' influence; it's challenging to do that. And I realize that so to speak, many of my choices aren't entirely right because I make them under the influence of facts from other people coming to me. I don't have to deny it-I need to get it under control.
 


 
All who deny they are abused-deprive themselves of the ability to protect themselves against it. It is the power of deception-it influences people not only secretly, but even people themselves do not want to expose them. Once used, traditional guns quickly turn the aggressor into an opponent and start battling with him. Yet people don't see the manipulations and don't want to know, so they follow them obediently. And consider what power you can gain by learning how to exploit men.
 


 













 
CHAPTER ONE
 


 
What’s Dark Psychology?
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Triad of darkness
 


 
Both world history and everyday life are full of examples of people behaving ruthlessly, mischievously, or selfishly.
 


 
In psychology as well as in everyday language, we have many names for the various dark patterns that the human being may have, including psychopathy (lack of empathy), narcissism (excessive self-absorption), and makeup (the belief that the ends justify the means).
 


 
These three traits, in particular, form what psychologists call the "triad of darkness," to which others are added, such as selfishness, sadism, or evil.
 


 
What has now been found is that these "dark side" traits seem to share a common dark core: whoever has one of those tendencies is more likely to have one or more of the others as well.
 


 
Although at first glance there appear to be noticeable differences between these traits or may seem more "acceptable" to be an egotistical person than a psychopath, for example, new research shows that all dark aspects of human personality are closely linked and based on the same trend.
 


 
 
 













 
Dark Psychology to Influence People
 


 
Before starting, it is essential to note that none of these methods falls into the hidden arts of people's influence. Any technique that could harm someone in any way, especially their self-esteem, is not included here. These are methods to win friends and influence people using dark psychology. Without being stupid or making someone feel bad.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Ask for favors Trick:
 Ask a favor from someone-also known as the Benjamin Franklin Effect. The legend says Benjamin Franklin attempted to captivate a man who did not like him. He begged the man to give him a rare book and graciously thanked him for having the book. As a result, this man, who had never before wished to speak to him, became a great friend of Franklin. 
 


 
Quoting Franklin: "He who once made you kind will always be more prepared to make you different than the one you forced him to do so." Scientists tested this theory and found that those whom the researcher asked for a personal favor were far more favorably rated than the other groups. It may seem irrational, but it is a valid theory. If somebody does you a favor, he probably thought it was worth doing the favor for you, so he decided he wanted you.
 


 
2. Ask a lot, Trick:
 Ask for much more than you would first want, then narrow it down. This trick is known as the "door to face" approach to influencing people. You begin by making an inadmissible request to someone-a request, which is likely to be rejected. Then, a short time later, you are asking for something that is far less unreasonable-something that you wanted first.
 


 
This trick may seem unrelated, but the idea behind it is to make the person feel he needs help now (since he initially refused). Scientists have found this method to have worked exceptionally well as long as requests are made to the same person because they will only feel obliged to help you around the second time.
 


 
3. Names Trick:
 Use the name or title of the person according to the situation. Dale Carnegie, author of How to Make Friends and Influence People, though it was incredibly important to use a person's name. He said the name of a person was for him the most appealing sound in any language. The name is the core part of your identity, and listening to it validates your existence and makes us much more willing to be positive with the person who validated us. But according to this principle, the use of a title can also have positive effects.
 


 
The idea is that if you act according to some type of person, with little self-realization, you will become that person. You can say what kind of person you would like them to be to influence people, so they will start acting accordingly. It can be something simple, like calling someone "friend" or "colleague" whenever you see him or referring to someone you would like to work for as a "boss," but be warned: this might sound very tacky.
 


 
4. Praise Trick:
 Praise carries you wherever. This trick may seem obvious, but there are important caveats over people's influence. It is important to note for those starting that if the compliment is not sincere, it will do more harm than good. Researchers looked at the reasons behind people's praise reactions and found important information.
 


 
They found that people were paying attention to the mental balance, keeping organized their thoughts and feelings. And, if you flatter someone who is perceived as having strong self-esteem, as being honest, they will value you more as it validates how they feel for themselves.
 


 
Nevertheless, if you compliment someone who has low self-esteem, there is a risk that the shot will backfire and make them even less like you because it interferes with their view. This does not, of course, mean that you will demean someone with low self-esteem!
 


 
5. Mirror Trick:
 Mirror conduct. Mirroring is also called mimicry, and some people do this naturally. People with this ability are considered chameleons; they attempt to blend in with the environment by copying the behavior, mannerisms, and speech patterns of other people.
 


 
But this ability can also be consciously used, and it is a great way to make it more enjoyable. Scientists have researched mimicry and discovered that imitators are far more likely to respond positively to those who replicated them.
 


 
Even more interesting was the second finding that showed that people who imitated their behavior became kinder and more generally supportive of others, even those who did not get involved in the situation. The reason this probably works is that they feel validated by mirroring someone is behavior. Although this validation is positively associated with the person who validated them, they feel better self-esteem and then become more confident, happier, and well disposed towards others.
 


 
6. Use tiredness Trick:
 When the person is tired, ask for favors. When tired, people become more susceptible to everything that anyone can say, whether it is an order or a request. The reason for this is that when people get tired, they decrease not only their physical strength but also their level of mental energy.
 


 
You probably will not receive a definitive answer when you ask someone tired, but an "I do it tomorrow" because, at that time, the person does not want to deal with the decisions. The person will follow through with the deal the next day, as they tend to want to keep their word. Following up on something you said you would be doing is psychologically natural.
 


 
7. Offer cannot be refused Trick:
 Start with an offer you can't refuse and increase from there. This is the reverse of the door-to-face technique. Instead of starting with a big request, start with something small. When someone commits to helping, they are more willing to agree to a more significant request. Scientists have tested this phenomenon about marketing. 
 


 
First, they asked people to express their support for tropical forests and the environment, which is a simple request. They found that once they got people to support the environment, it was much easier to convince them to buy products that helped tropical forests and the like. However, don't start with one order and immediately place another. Psychologists have found that it will be much more effective if you wait a day or two before placing your second order. 
 


 
8. Be quiet, Trick:
 Do not get people right when they are wrong. Carnegie also pointed out in his famous book that telling a person he is wrong is usually unnecessary, and will do the opposite to captivate him. There is a way to demonstrate your disagreement and turn it into polite conversation, without saying it is wrong, which would attack your ego's core. 
 


 
It is known as the Ransberger Joint, created by Marshall Fritz and Ray Ransberger. The idea is simple: Listen to what the other person has to say instead of arguing. Try to see how she feels and why. So, talk about the things that you have got in common. Explain your point of view using this as a starting point. This will increase your chances of getting the person to hear what you have to say and enable you to correct them without losing control.
 


 
9. Repeat Trick:
 For people to paraphrase, to repeat what they said. Some of the most effective ways of influencing people are to show you understand what they want from them and what they want. Paraphrasing and repeating what were said, also known as reflective listening, is one of the most efficient ways to do this. 
 


 
Studies have shown that they feel more willing to show their emotions and have a better relationship with the therapist when therapists use reflective listening. Moving into a chat with your colleagues is easy. If you listen to what they are saying and ask it as a request, they will feel more relaxed talking to you to make sure you hear. Friendship with you will improve because they will be more likely to listen to what you have to say. You have, after all, proved that you value it.
 


 
10. Wave to influence people Trick:
 Nod your head when you talk, particularly when you ask for a favor. Scientists have found that people are prone to agree when they nod their heads while listening to something. They also found that it is natural for them to do the same when someone is waving in front of them. 
 


 
This is an obvious fact since it is known that man imitates behaviors—particularly those who have positive connotations. So, wave regularly during the conversation if you want to be more convincing. The person you are talking to will find it hard not to wave too and will start feeling more inclined to agree with what you are saying, even without knowing.
 


 













 
CHAPTER TWO
 


 
The Dark Psychology Traits
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
People can be classified according to their personality and the traits that compose it, and different types are differentiated by their way of acting, self-confidence, and the way they deal with the rest.
 


 
Just as there are different ways of being, there are also personality disorders that are dangerous and harmful. In this section, we tell you what the four types of personalities that science calls dark is. 
 


 
 
 













 
Narcissistic
 


 
“Everything is allowed to me” or “Others are only there to worship me” are typical examples of narcissistic- dominated thoughts. They are selfish people, with a sense of egocentric right and a positive self-image, although unrealistic if you consider the opinion of the people around you.
 


 
Narcissists are "snake charmers." At first, they are very dear to others, their behaviors are pleasant and attractive, but over time, they can become very dangerous. They may even unintentionally show what their true intentions are: to gain more admiration and power.
 


 
They often get bored with the routine, so look for tough challenges. The most narcissistic demand a leadership position, law, or any other profession that involves high levels of stress. According to psychoanalyst Michael Maccoby, narcissism is an increasingly frequent disorder in the upper levels of the business world and is directly related to competition, salary, and glamour.
 


 
One of their strengths is their great persuasiveness. Thanks to this, they surround themselves with a large following, can convince without any effort. In short, they always get what they set themselves. Moreover, as they are not empathic, they are not scrupulous about the means and strategies they use to achieve their goals.
 


 
The narcissists' interest and concern for others are zero despite their high theatricality. They feel no remorse and are impassive to the needs and feelings of the people around them.
 


 
Now your Achilles heel is your self-esteem. Narcissists often have very low self-esteem, which is accompanied by internal vulnerability and some instability. Therefore, they usually seek to relate to people they consider inferior to exercise their dominance and feel powerful.
 


 
 
 













 
Machiavellian
 


 
For the "Machiavellians," the end justifies the means, regardless of the consequences that may arise. They are very calculative and cold people, destroying any real emotional connection with others. Although they have traits in common with narcissists, such as selfishness and the use of others, there is one distinguishing feature: they are realistic in their perceptions and estimates of their abilities and the relationships they maintain.
 


 
The "Machiavellians" don't try to impress anyone, on the contrary. They show themselves as they are and prefer to see things better because, in this way, they can better manipulate each other. Their focus is on the emotions of the people they would want to use to get what they want. If they know your feelings, it will be easier to choose the best strategy to manipulate them.
 


 
According to Daniel Goleman, people with Machiavellian characteristics may have less empathy for others. Their coldness seems to stem from a lack of processing both their own emotions and those of others.
 


 
Their emotions are so baffling that when they are anxious, they often cannot tell whether they are sad, tired, or just not feeling well. However, they have a remarkable ability to perceive what others think. But, as Goleman says, "Even if your head knows what to do, your heart has no idea."
 


 
 
 


 
Machiavellianism Characteristic Warning signals from a toxic Machiavelli’s
 


 
You can work for one, date one, or you, yourself, could be one. How can you know for sure if someone has characteristics of Machiavellism?
 


 
Before you point your fingers at people and tell them that they have Machiavellian characteristics, which makes you look super intelligent, if you use it properly, you need to know what it means.
 


 
Machiavellism, as the Oxford English Dictionary says, "is the use of cunning and duplicity in statesmanship or general behavior." Now let's delete that sentence and make it genuinely readable * thank you, Oxford Dictionary *. What it refers to is someone who focuses purely on his self-interest and manipulates, cheats, and misused others to achieve his personal goals. They don't look like great people.
 


 
 
 


 
Machiavellism traits to watch out for
 


 
Interestingly, Machiavellianism is part of the "dark triad" of the three negative personality traits: narcissism, Machiavellism, and psychopathy.  If someone has these qualities, they are more likely to perform actions that are considered harmful. In other words, they are bastards.
 


 
If someone has these Machiavellian traits, at least one of them, they are more likely to commit crimes and cause social distress.  Are there people suddenly appearing in you? If someone has these qualities, you should keep a close eye on them.
 


 
 
 




 
 
If they are Machiavellian, they can be a psychopath. Now I am not trying to scare you, but it is known that Machiavellianism is strongly correlated to psychopathy. Does this mean that this person is going to kill you? No. But it does mean that they have little empathy, mixed with high levels of impulsiveness. It is, therefore, not the right combination to date or to have children with if you get what I say. If I can make it brighter, stay away from this person.
 




 
 
 




 
They show signs of duplicity. Duplication means, and again, thank you Webster's Dictionary, the "contradictory ambiguity of thought, speech, or action; especially, confessing one's true intentions through deceptive words or deeds. " you have no idea where their right plans are because they continuously tell you one thing and do another.
 




 
 
 




 
They are focused on their well-being. Listen, we are all animals, so it is normal for everyone to be selfish and focused on their well-being. You can't call someone Machiavellian to take care of themselves. However, there is a moment when it goes overboard. People who score as Machiavellianism think that to get ahead, they have to be misleading.
 




 
 
 




 
They are tactical. If they disclose information to you, this happens for a specific reason and usually because it is beneficial to them. So, if you feel like you are missing a piece of the puzzle, it's because it's you. And if you think you've received all the right information, there is a reason why. They never let you know anything just because you know it.
 


 
They manipulate and control. They study the people around them. They know very well where everyone taps around them. That is why they are successful in getting ahead of you. You may not even see their manipulation until you realize that you are entirely dependent on it — your talents, skills, and abilities they simply use to exploit.
 


 
It's about getting ahead. This is all a massive game for them. Intimate relationships, if any, work, friends, are carefully selected, as if they were chosen, to gain or retain power. But let's be sincere; these people are not in the game of maintaining power; they always want more.
 


 
They are narcissistic. If they were not narcissistic, it would not make sense. These people are only concerned about themselves. They sit high on a pedestal and feel extremely important. Yes, self-interest is one thing, but they are on a very different level because they think they are the most critical people on the planet. That means they use you and throw you away if it means they are making progress.
 


 
The ends justify the means. They don't care how they climbed the top of the ladder to that cushy CEO position, and the point is they made it. All the dirty work they had to do to get there makes perfect sense, and they had to do it. Or else they would not have achieved what they were doing or at least not in this period. They do not feel bad for their actions because they have finally made their goal.
 


 
These people usually do not seek therapy. Usually, because they see nothing that they are doing wrong or because they do not want to see a therapist because they believe that people are generally unfair and do not trust. Usually, when they go to therapy, it is due to family members, friends, or a court order that forces them to do so. This doesn’t mean that they will be successful with therapy; it must be wanted.
 


 
You will be charmed. They are very charming. If they were different, you wouldn't pay attention to them, or you'd think they're bastards. But they know how to get people to worship, respect, and fear them. Although they may not have the desired skills, it doesn't matter, and they have charm. As soon as they see something in you that they need, they put that charm on and give you the feeling that you are a particular person.
 


 
These people are toxic. If you read this because you think you know someone who has Machiavellian traits, you can only do one thing: remove them from your life. Yes, I know it sounds loud. Listen, people like this don't change because they don't see a problem. The only thing you can save yourself is to remove them from your life. Believe me, and they will find a replacement for you soon.
 




 
 
 













 
Psychopaths and Sociopaths
 


 
The most dangerous of all dark personalities, psychopaths being an essential part of serial killers who are characterized by their cruelty and not only lack of empathy with the suffering of the other, but also enjoy the evil of others.
 


 
Although psychopaths and sociopaths fall under the same dark personality classification, psychopaths will sooner or later act as it is tough for them to control their impulses. The sociopath is more intelligent, and although he enjoys the suffering of others and causing pain, he goes more for the psychological rather than the physical side.
 


 
A sociopath can live perfectly well without committing crimes, making them more challenging to detect. In addition to dark personalities, both are considered a harmful disorder that makes them dangerous for society since there is no way to reform them, and they are born that way. 
 


 
 
 













 
Sadism
 


 
Sadism is a word derived from Donatien Alphonse François de Sade, better known as Marquis de Sade. It is a writer and philosopher who was born in 1740 and died in 1814 and who remained in history for narrating various paraphilias and vices.
 


 
The notion of sadism, in this way, is used to name the perversion that consists of obtaining pleasure from exercising cruelty on another living being. The sadist, therefore, enjoys causing pain to others.
 


 
The usual thing is to associate sadism with the sexual: the sadist gets excited and gets pleasure from humiliating the other or generating some type of damage. Arousal is produced by humiliation and harm, and not by the sexual practice itself.
 


 
Tying the couple with handcuffs, spanking, or locking them are some of the behaviors of sadism. The sadist can also resort to rape his victim.
 


 
In addition to all the above, we cannot ignore other important aspects related to sadism, such as these:
 




 
It becomes a negative paraphilia as long as it produces damage to third parties.
 


 
According to the studies carried out in this regard, it has been shown that, after studying the brain of sadists, they have a very high sensitivity regarding what other people's pain is. Specifically, this conclusion has been reached after checking how the amygdala, which processes, reactions to what emotions are, was activated in the brains of these individuals when they saw images of suffering and violence.
 


 
Many people practice sadism with their partners because both parties agree and accept it. However, they must take certain precautions and impose certain limits since some actions can directly be hazardous and cause severe damage to one of them, including death. We are referring to actions such as beating, raping, electric shock, torture, trying to strangle her..
 


 
It is considered that there are a series of disorders that are associated with a specific frequency to what is sadism. We are referring to depressive disorder, antisocial disorder, narcissistic personality disorder... In some cases, we can establish that, in addition to all the above, it can also be associated with what is the consumption of psychoactive substances.
 




 
Beyond sexuality, sadism is understood as an act of cruelty that a person performs for his delight. A man who mistreats a dog for fun will be incurring sadism: his action generates joy from the suffering of the animal.
 


 
He who kidnaps a child locks him in a room without light or ventilation, denies him food, and only enters the room to hit his victim, will also be developing behaviors of extraordinary sadism since he does not seek anything other than to take pleasure in the abuse he exercises. 
 


 
He who kidnaps a child locks him in a room without light or ventilation, denies him food, and only enters the room to hit his victim, will also be developing behaviors of extraordinary sadism since he does not seek anything other than to take pleasure in the abuse he exercises. 
 


 
We could consider that sadism to be one of the characteristics of the dark personalities that we have already named, but a sadist takes his actions much further than in other cases.
 


 
The sadist enjoys causing the most significant amount of suffering in the other and at a higher level of cruelty. Their difference from psychopaths is that sadists are not impulsive.
 


 
People with a sadistic personality seek to belong to groups or have jobs where they have power over the application of control and violence over others. A sadist is dangerous, but sadly he knows how to hide his actions as well.
 


 
It is not necessary to gather all the traits to belong to one of these groups of dark personalities since, like everything in human psychology, it is presented in different degrees and not all reach the most harmful and dangerous level.
 


 













 
CHAPTER THREE
 


 
What Are the Psychological Manipulation Techniques?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
A manipulation is an act involving the misuse of power as it requires the use of discursive elements to manipulate one or more people's thoughts, affections, and behaviors. Sometimes it is confused or combined with other related processes: argumentation and persuasion, but they are not identical.
 


 
They clarify what manipulation is in this chapter and how it is different from persuasion and argumentation. We also give several examples of commonly used manipulation techniques.
 


 
 
 


 
Arguing, persuading and manipulating are not the same
 


 
All argumentation and persuasion and coercion may take the form of oral or written speech and serve to justify an idea or an attitude in very general terms, so it is very easy to confuse them. What separates them is the aim of every pursues, as well as its particular elements.
 


 
The argument is an action in which an idea is given logic and coherence to justify it. In other words, it is when we set up a justification for a particular purpose: to explain or contradict the same justification or another.
 


 
On the other hand, persuasion happens when the argument has one more purpose: it is used not only to justify or refute an idea but also to change the interlocutor's behaviors.
 


 
 
 


 
So, coercion is when the argument is used to alter or direct the behavior of the interlocutor. It is nevertheless based on two key elements and purposes: control, or rather the misuse of power, which translates into domination.
 


 
This can be very subtle (usually goes unnoticed) and can be the basis for symbolic abuse since it helps to support the interests of one party and damage those of the other.
 


 
For this reason, manipulation can be analyzed from three dimensions (Van Dijk, 2006): a social dimension exercised by the elites who have access to public discourse, so their influence is broad; a cognitive dimension consisting of controlling mental models and social representations, and a discursive dimension consisting of using linguistic elements to be able to influence both.
 


 
 
 


 
Some manipulation techniques
 


 
In recent decades, studies on how some groups or individuals manipulate others have become very frequent, particularly in the area of media, advertising, and political activity.
 


 
Due to this, we have been able to recognize specific methods of coercion that we can very quickly fall into without knowing it, both in our interpersonal interactions and in what we see on television or the Internet every day.
 


 
While much more may be exemplified, below, we will examine the most popular techniques of manipulation:
 


 
 
 


 
1. Gaslighting
 


 
Known as "gaslight," it is among the most insidious of all. "That never happens," "You imagined it," or "Are you crazy?" These are some of the expressions they use to distort and confuse your sense of reality, making you believe something that did not happen.
 


 
Barton and Whitehead (1969) defined "gaslighting" as "the intentional pursuit of making a person look crazy and make a profit from him." It instills in victims an extreme sense of anguish and confusion, to the point where they cease to trust themselves, their memory, perception, or judgment.
 


 
In an investigation conducted by Galán and Figeroa (2017), they describe making "gaslights" with denial of the damage caused, creating lies, offering false information, and disqualifying the victim's feelings. It is also a method of confusing the partner, manipulating, blaming, and downplaying the experiences and thereby destroying the victim through their mental health.
 


 
The attacker's communication to the victim is hostile through silences, complaints, bad jokes and humiliations, threats, etc. According to the authors, the consequences on the victim can be several:
 




 
Guilty feeling.
 


 
Disorientation.
 


 
Panic.
 


 
Anger.
 


 
Duel.
 


 
Low self-esteem.
 


 
Lack of autonomy.
 


 
Emotional dependence.
 


 
Alcohol consumption
 


 
Even suicide.
 




 
 
 


 
2. Projection
 


 
The manipulator transfers his negative traits or shifts the responsibility for his behaviors to another person. The narcissists and psychopaths the overused, claiming that the evil that surrounds them is not their fault, but yours.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Play with feelings and emotions
 


 
Controlling the effective aspect is one of the most critical devices as it helps recipients reaffirm their beliefs and positions without actually having passed rational, analytical, or vital thinking through.
 


 
An example could be the activity of the tabloid press, which is the one that exaggerates the news giving the information a touch of sensationalism rather than rigor, because the aim is precisely to appeal to the emotional dimension of the readers and their previous experiences, and thus to increase visits or sales.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Simplify the message and include strong affirmations
 


 
It consists of controlling the cognitive elements that allow us to process and understand a message. It is when you use quick and resounding guesses that do not give the possibility of in-depth analysis, which is intentionally hindering the understanding of the argument.
 


 
For example, when a small part of a text is printed in large letters, underlined and at the beginning, which in addition to immediately attracting our attention and activating short-term memory, causes us to have a partial or biased understanding of the information.
 


 
 
 


 
5. Use what authority says or thinks
 


 
It is when introducing an individual or leader who is socially accepted as a competent authority justifies a role. It is beneficial as we also prefer to think more strongly about the views, actions, or behaviors of someone we respect or someone in a position of influence.
 


 
It can mean that of an artist or a family member from the opinion of a priest or president, and its usefulness depends on the context in which the community or individual works.
 


 
 
 


 
6. Individualize conflicts and suggest that they are always the same
 


 
This is when a situation, mainly when it is a contradictory situation, is reduced to what a single person or group of people does, does, or feels, ignoring all the other factors, agents, or groups that also influence or are influenced by that situation, leading to general awareness, love, attitude or ideology.
 


 
An example can be found in the situations that arise where an incident is portrayed as an isolated occurrence in the news media, or as the act of a "madman" (with whom we are encouraged to hate everyone that it seems), rather than being interpreted as the product of complicated political and social disputes.
 


 
 
 


 
7. Use and reinforce stereotypes
 


 
Stereotypes are behavioral qualities that are attributed in a simplified and almost automatic way to a person or a group of people.
 


 
They are useful as a persuasion technique because they allow controlling values
 
and judgments without having to justify the arguments deeply and without allowing the recipient to question himself widely. That is, interest in deep and reflective information is not favored.
 


 
 
 













 
Behavioural and Character Traits of the Manipulators
 


 
 
 


 
Throughout your life, you will encounter manipulative people, who pursue your selfish purposes, for whom they have no qualms about causing harm to you.
 


 
Generally, manipulative people have no qualms or compassion when they find a new victim for their plans since they are individuals dedicated to exploiting other people's weaknesses to achieve their benefit, regardless of what they have to do for it.
 


 
The manipulative method used in his approach focuses on emotional blackmail, involving people with false words and deeds. In this way, their victims trust and yield to the supposed good intention of this manipulative mind, which pretends to feel sympathy and appreciation for others.
 


 
Hence the danger posed by manipulative people to anyone's life, as for them, there is no moral limit or obstacle between their goal and themselves. This allows them to easily crush, use, and dispose of people affected by the way they act.
 


 
Despite knowing the threat that manipulative people pose in their life, it is quite challenging to differentiate them into a group of acquaintances or co-workers since you can even fall victim to someone without realizing it until you are affected by their bad influence.
 


 
That is why we present five typical characteristics of a manipulator to help you identify and recognize this type of predator that lurks in your social circles.
 


 
 
 


 
Five common traits in manipulative people
 


 
Innate speakers
 


 
Manipulative people demand their best speech skills to convince their victims of their false good intentions to deal with the gift of speech effectively.
 


 
They can transform any situation they find themselves in to convince others of their innocence. They are coming to create a false image in the minds of those who fall for their mind games.
 


 
They maintain excessive control over the situation, always obtaining the most significant benefit in exchange for others' hard work. His word tends to confuse and manipulate his victims efficiently, to the point of remaining unaware of a bad way of acting.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative people are greedy
 


 
Manipulators do not pursue a simple goal that they can achieve on their own; on the contrary, and they are always looking for a greater objective that continuously compresses their victims.
 


 
The hunger for power and control is also a reflection of the great ego that manipulative people tend to possess—those who over-rely on their manipulation to the point of feeling invincible, lest they set future limits.
 


 
 
 


 
They tend to assume the role of the victim
 


 
Being a victim implies significant vulnerability and innocence, so it is the unique role of manipulative people. Since people around you never think that the victim is the victim.
 


 
In this way, they manipulate other people emotionally, playing with their feelings. Therefore, confrontation with a manipulator can make you believe that he is the victim, and you are the aggressor.
 


 
 
 


 
Create a false image of the need
 


 
Piety is the emotion that manipulative people tend to hold on to. To do this, they use an image of weakness and fragility, to which their victims fall easily, wanting to help someone in need.
 


 
After deceiving people with their false need, a manipulator makes his victims feel responsible for their health, food, money, and any other benefits they can obtain from that individual.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulative people always lie
 


 
Inevitably, lying is part of any manipulator's repertoire. They deal with this ability naturally, without showing doubts or any characteristic that allows their victims to detect the truth behind their false facade.
 


 
Manipulative people are masters of lies, to the point of lying in any aspect of their lives, regardless of whether it is minimal or essential. Because, through deception, they can approach the goal they are pursuing.
 


 
For lack of a moral compass, there is no limit to the lies of a manipulator. For him, lies are part of the tools he needs to achieve his goal, regardless of who causes harm.
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER FOUR
 


 
Signs That You're Being Manipulated
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
There is a category of manipulators who try to influence people, fully aware of what they are doing. To manipulate is to persuade a person to fulfill his will to gain profit. A person unconsciously manipulates from an early age. Already, pre-schoolers can use primitive manipulation techniques to get what they want from their parents.
 


 
Most adults also use manipulation techniques, but more often, they do it unknowingly. But there is a category of manipulators who try to influence people, fully aware of what they are doing. Such people are called energy vampires, and maintaining close contact with them is sometimes very dangerous.
 


 
How to recognize who is in front of you - an experienced manipulator, aware of his actions, or just a person acting out of habit, unconsciously? Consider these signs that you are being manipulated consciously.
 


 
 
 


 
1. The model of behavior
 


 
If we talk about experienced manipulators who are used to achieving their goals by controlling people through their subconscious fears and weaknesses, they differ in a particular behavior model. Conscious manipulations gradually lead to personality deformation. Several behavioral features are considered typical. The first thing you need to pay attention to is excessive, ostentatious emotionality.
 


 
Second, such people are attentive and observant, and you can notice how they sometimes peer at people. A professional manipulator will never listen to a person inattentively. He listens sympathetically, actively participates in conversations, can assent. And of course, the third - the manipulators take small pauses between the emotional reactions and the events that provoked them. This happens only because their body needs a little more time to synthesize emotions, which are often an instrument of control and influence.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Unpredictability
 


 
As a rule, it is impossible to predict or predict such a person's words and actions in advance. This distinguishes manipulators - they have flexibility, and they always adjust their actions depending on the situation, and on how open the interlocutor is. Unpredictability is inherent in every person, but usually, the actions and words of such people in most cases can be predicted. Manipulators often use it as a technique that discourages the interlocutor, disorients, and plunges into confusion. It is at such moments that people are most open to manipulation, and one who uses this method of influence consciously often uses unpredictability.
 


 
 
 


 
3. The lack of direct answers
 


 
As a rule, an unconsciously manipulating person does not care that they can figure it out. However, professionals know what they are doing and why, and are as cautious as possible in their speeches. Therefore, they often answer evasively or may even evade answers if it is not convenient for them to answer questions.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Inconsistency of gestures and emotions
 


 
This is a typical sign of insincerity that accompanies all the speech of manipulators using unclean tricks in dealing with people. You can replace the difference between what kind of emotional tone a person speaks and what his gestures are. As a rule, manipulators actively gesticulate, and it is difficult not to notice it. Unconscious manipulation is distinguished by the fact that a person does everything automatically, and the pros perfectly understand their insincerity and try to hide behind an emotional background.
 


 
 
 


 
5. Conversations in private
 


 
Each of us sometimes needs to discuss something with someone in private. This is the norm and does not contain any toxic elements. But a consciously manipulating person almost always calls his potential victim into a solitary conversation, since in this case, he will have to face the least resistance. A person who realizes that he plans to persuade someone through psychological pressure to fulfill his will not do this in public, where there is a high risk of exposure.
 


 
 
 


 
6. Valuation judgment
 


 
Pro manipulators use-value judgment more often than ordinary people. They intend to expose the world, people, phenomena, and actions in black or white, without shades. They have only "very good" - this is usually what is beneficial to them. And "very bad" is what they do not need at all.
 


 
 
 


 
7. Eye-to-eye look
 


 
As a rule, psychologists recommend recognizing liars and manipulators by a wandering gaze. People often look away when they are not completely sincere, but this is most often done by those who do this unconsciously. An energy vampire who knows his job, on the contrary, tries to look directly into the eyes of his interlocutor, and rarely looks away. Because of this gaze, people get confused quicker and can make concessions easier.
 


 
 
 


 
8. Speed
 


 
The manipulator, acting consciously, does not give the interlocutor time for thought and does it very skillfully. It requires an immediate response, and always adjusts the circumstances in such a way as to increase the likelihood of agreement. They do everything very quickly, do not insert pauses in conversations, and are always in a hurry. Modern psychologists have begun to study the fraud's problem to uncover as many criminal schemes as possible aimed at taking away other people's money. 
 


 
Relatively recently, psychologists around the world have become interested in the so-called "toxic charges." We are talking about fraudulent fundraising, allegedly for sick children. Law enforcement authorities have uncovered several such cases. And psychologists noted that in all messages of scammers, there was an emphasis on urgency.
 


 
 
 


 
9. The tendency to downplay
 


 
This is another psychological technique that is not always used consciously. The tendency to downplay is inherent in absolutely all categories of manipulating personalities, but those who do this intentionally use this technique more often and more persistently. Such a person likes to periodically accept the victim's image because having caused pity in the interlocutor makes it easier for him to manage him.
 


 
 
 


 
10. Aura of hopelessness
 


 
If the manipulator acts consciously, it does not just play down, which thickens colors to hopelessness. The complete hopelessness that he can draw in the imagination of the interlocutor is not a reliable reflection of reality. The manipulator presents only negative facts, skillfully hiding the positive aspects and keeping silent about them.
 


 
To learn to recognize manipulators and understand whether they manipulate consciously or unconsciously, experience and practice are needed. Unfortunately, it is far from always possible to figure out an energy vampire right away, but with experience, this skill will come.
 


 
 
 













 
How to Defend Yourself from a Manipulative Person
 


 
 
 




 
Know our Fundamental rights
 




 
The single most important guideline when dealing with a manipulative person is knowing our rights and recognizing when they are being violated. As long as it doesn't harm others, we have the right to stand up and defend our rights.
 


 
We have the right to: Be treated with respect, express our feelings and opinions, set our priorities, refuse something, differ in views, take care of ourselves, set limits, and be happy.
 




 
Understand the characteristics of a manipulative person
 




 
The observation of their behaviors is essential since they are not always very evident to the naked eye, but little by little we can discover them, and if we are patient, they will reveal they are true intentions
 




 
Try to change ourselves, not the manipulator
 




 
We must focus on not being vulnerable and easy targets for a manipulator, and it is easier for us to change than for them to change.
 


 
Another change that we can make is in the dynamic that is established between the manipulators and us. Altering this dynamic makes the manipulators stop having control and thus often give up their manipulative intentions.
 




 
Keep distance
 




 
One way to detect a manipulator is to see if a person acts with different faces in front of other people and different situations. When this type of behavior is observed, the most advisable thing is to maintain a healthy distance and avoid getting too involved with that person, since otherwise we can be affected.
 




 
Avoid making it personal
 




 
The manipulator seeks to exploit our weaknesses, and it can make us feel inadequate or even guilty. For this, it is essential to remember that we are not the problem, nor are we to blame; they are merely trying to make us feel bad or guilty to gain more power and control over us. We must think about whether the other person's demands are reasonable, whether we feel good about ourselves being with that person, and whether we are being respected.
 




 
Focus on them by asking probing questions
 




 
Inevitably, psychological manipulators will make requests (or demands) of us, and these often focus on satisfying their desires. We must pay attention to whether the requests are reasonable. Sometimes it is useful to focus on them and ask them if they can recognize the unreasonableness of their request; by doing this, we put a mirror on them to see if it can realize their intentions and withdraw the request.
 




 
take our time
 




 
Handlers often expect an answer immediately and apply pressure by reducing the time they give to receive the response. Distancing yourself from the influence of the manipulator to think before answering usually helps us to decide better, since we can evaluate the pros and cons with greater confidence.
 




 
Learn to say "No" diplomatically
 




 
Making one of an assertive communication allows us to express our wishes, without our choice being violated more easily. We should not be afraid to deny ourselves something, nor feel guilty for not meeting someone else's demands.
 




 
Confront
 




 
Staying passive and docile makes it easier for manipulators to exert influence over us, as they will find us weak, so we must show ourselves strong and secure when defending our rights.
 


 
Confronting someone puts us in a safe position and takes us out of vulnerability since by facing them, we make them see that we are aware of their purpose and that their manipulation strategies are not going unnoticed.
 


 
 
 













 
Practical Tips for Dealing with Predators
 


 
 
 


 
With an emotional predator, we should have sound social and psychological support. An emotional predator's victim does not always have sufficient resources to deal with this conduct. It is thus common to be entirely dependent upon the first person who feels the victim of a psychological jail and, in turn, is trapped by fear.
 


 
In those cases, it is always vital that we have social and health support, besides making use of adequate psych emotional skills. As striking as it may seem, all of us can sometimes fall into such damaging links. Our gender, social position, or previous experience does not matter.
 


 
The emotional predator lives almost everywhere. Moreover, behind these behaviors, there is sometimes a narcissistic profile, a personality that is highly specialized in psychological manipulation, darkness, and domination. In all cases, knowing how to act is critical.
 


 
 
 


 
Identify the emotional predator
 


 
There is a first aspect we must consider. We must be sensitive and know how to react in time to all emotional predation processes. We cannot forget that this reality occurs too often, defining a widespread type of psychological abuse.
 


 
To do this, we must put aside the blame and gradually abandon tolerance, recognizing that the person with whom we are may have a possible personality disorder or simply be someone with dangerous behavior.
 


 
Therefore, it is essential to understand their tactics and how they work with psychological help and support from our environment.
 


 
Let's see some characteristics.
 


 
 
 


 
How is the emotional predator?
 




 
He yearns for control at all times.
 


 
He despises and humiliates the other person. In case you offer reinforcements or positive acts, it will be done for personal interest or to get something.
 


 
It manipulates reality, makes us believe that we are wrong or that we are naive.
 


 
You victimize yourself to be in control.
 


 
Ironic, critical, sarcastic language.
 


 
Grandiose airs.
 


 
He punishes us often with indifference and with the idea of
 
severing the relationship.
 


 
Project the blame on us.
 




 
As a curiosity, according to a study carried out at the University of Innsbruck, Germany, by doctors Ursa Nagler and Katharina J.  Reiter, the emotional predator is highly skilled in Emotional Intelligence. However, be careful because that ability is used to control others.
 


 
 
 


 
Stop justifying yourself
 


 
It is essential to keep this message in mind when you are faced with an emotional predator. The victim will indeed want to justify himself since the aggressor's speech is riddled with lies, but the explanations and justifications will only lead to getting more stuck at that moment:
 




 
The emotional predator will use all the mistakes and inaccuracies that his victim has made against him, even if they had good intentions.
 


 
Therefore, silence is better, since anything we do or say can turn against us.
 


 
If we are facing a moment of separation, the harassment process can be carried out by phone or through messages.
 




 
For them, it is recommended if it is possible to change the number or email, filter them, or have a third person to help us. It is whoever intervenes since if it is the victim who responds again, they can re-immerse themselves in the process of emotional predation, destabilizing their separation and independence.
 


 
 
 


 
Act
 


 
As the mental process of separation progresses, and the victim finds himself strong and resilient, he can change his strategy and act firmly, without fear.
 


 
The crisis will allow the victim's life to be reborn again. We must end this link clearly and definitively.
 


 
 
 


 
To resist
 


 
It is essential to know that to resist psychologically, and you need some support to restore the lost self-confidence of the victim.
 


 
Good support is content to be on the victim's side when the victim needs it, without making judgments or being fooled by reproaches and manipulations.
 


 
Furthermore, it is advisable to go to professionals (psychologists, psychiatrists, etc.) to help restore our well-being and personal autonomy and to restore confidence and face our fears.
 


 
 
 


 
Justice intervention
 


 
A crisis or conflict of this kind can only be resolved with justice. However, the evidence is necessary for these processes. This is where more complications usually occur because humiliations, contempt, insults, and offenses are hard to prove unless there is a third party when they occur, which may be the key.
 


 
It is also suggested that all written documents be kept as evidence. It is an arduous process, full of uncertainty, as many judges are suspicious.
 


 
Perhaps the only way to protect the victim is to establish strict judicial orders and avoid inter-party contact. Finally, being a matter of justice, taking adequate protection measures to prevent the resurgence of emotional predation relationship.
 


 













 
CHAPTER FIVE
 


 
Deciphering Personality Types
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
How many human personality types have is one of psychology's most widely discussed topics? Understanding other people is beneficial in establishing effective relationships with others. For many experts, how to identify each has been the subject of research for years, and it seems that a team has now managed to divide it into several different classes.
 


 
Several expert scientists have used the five widely accepted basic dimensions of personality: neuroticism, extraversion, openness to new experiences, agreeability, and responsibility to determine four main groups.
 


 
The extensive research project, led by Northwest Engineering's Luis Amaral and comprising data from more than 1.5 million respondents, identified them as: "average," "reserved," "self-centered," and "role models. The questionnaires, developed over the decades, have between 44 and 300 questions. People volunteered online tests attracted by the opportunity to receive comments about their personalities. Additionally, this data is now available for independent analysis of other scientists.
 


 
Researchers emphasize that personalities change over the years.
 


 
While psychologists have long been quite skeptical about personality tests and their effectiveness, the large number of results recorded in this particular study suggests that experts could work with these new categories.
 


 
 
 


 
In the mean
 


 
This type was the most repeated in the questionnaires, and we could call them "normal." They show moderate traits of responsibility (awareness and consideration of a person) and kindness (understanding, little hostility), extraversion and emotional instability (or neuroticism: mood swings, tendency to feel angry or sad), and with few expectations (curiosity and search for new experiences and low learning).
 


 
 
 


 
Reserved
 


 
They are people with high emotional stability and a normal character, neither open nor neurotic. They are not known as outgoing but friendly and responsible. They are somewhat shy, they usually do not look at the eyes, and they put great distances with others. They are generally quite insecure and store emotional information (both positive and negative). Their disposition is usually empathetic and correct, and they usually get annoyed if, for no reason, someone raises their voice.
 


 
 
 


 
Egocentric
 


 
According to scientists, they are not very pleasant to others. They combine a lower score in kindness, openness, and responsibility. They have high extroversion, but little frankness and conscientiousness. They also focus on themselves and prefer not to live new experiences.
 


 
They believe they know all and impose their opinion on any subject. They are superior, do not take advice, and always try to control the situation. According to the study, it is a type of toxic personality, not just for others but for themselves. They like compliments and hint at the great source of wisdom at all times.
 


 
 
 


 
Role models
 


 
They have high levels of extraversion, kindness, and accountability with low neuroticism. They are exceptionally scrupulous in every way. Traits that predominate in women, cultivated with age. They are also always interested in what others have to say. They are leaders, emotionally stable, hard-working.
 


 
Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences Professor of Psychology William Revelled showed the classification to a skeptic of personality types. "I am very direct," he warned. "My first reaction was to say that it was stupid." However, he was so interested that he became a co-author of the study published in 'Nature.' "People have tried to classify personality types since the time of Hippocrates, but previous scientific literature found it to be meaningless. Now, these data show that there are higher densities of certain types.
 


 
 
 


 
Changes over time
 


 
Researchers note there is an evolution as the years go by. The data analyzed reveal something everyone knows from their own experience: it is widespread for us in adolescence to be subjects focused on ourselves (mostly men). Neurotic tendencies decrease over time, and responsibility and kindness increase.
 


 
The questionnaires used range from 33 to 400 and are reliable due to a large number of participants
 


 
Amaral says, "When you study very large population groups, clear trends appear to change depending on the age group." Scientists argue that their findings will be of great help to psychologists and psychiatrists who, thanks to them, will have a reference model for diagnosing mental illnesses.
 


 
"What is cool is that a study with such a large set of data would not have been possible before the internet. Previously, researchers might recruit students on campus and maybe get a few hundred people. Now, we have all these online resources, and more data can be shared," he adds.
 


 
 
 













 
Five Subtypes of Paranoid Personality
 


 
 
 


 
Sensitive Personality
 


 
Most important of all, paranoid subtypes. It is the closest entity to paranoid psychosis; it is also called benign paranoia, relational paranoia, or abortive paranoia. It was described in 1918 by the German psychiatrist Ernst Kretschmar (The Sensitive Reference Delusion), who already gave psychological factors a significant role.
 


 
In it, personality is the nucleus of disorder, and the delirium, almost always absent in the paranoid personality, appears temporarily as a reaction to an emotional stress situation. Delirium does not seriously alter the subject's life as it does not invade the issue as a whole as it occurs in paranoia. When they leave, they criticize the delusional contents ("I see that everything was my imagination').
 


 
These are patients with significant childhood emotional disaffections, grown-up without close supervision, who have been forced to decipher the world for themselves since their tenderest years, without anyone giving them the keys to doing so.
 


 
Like children, patients with sensitive personalities interpret everything that happens around them as referring to them and with intense guilt burden. Their hypervigilance state makes them very sensitive, and they capture details that others go unnoticed that they see them related.
 


 
These are patients with significant childhood emotional disaffections, grown-up without close supervision, who have been forced to decipher the world for themselves since their tenderest years, without anyone giving them the keys to doing so. They observe reality from a barrier they believe is insurmountable, always outside.
 


 
Usually, they are peaceful, pessimistic, stubborn, introverted, sad, and lonely subjects because they never felt entitled to be part of the world. They tend to be self-critical, often feeling inferior. They perceive any comment around them, especially from hierarchical superiors, as a pejorative and critical allusion to them. They will also consider it humiliating and possibly deserved, but never express their anger until it explodes in delirium.
 


 
 
 


 
The paranoid fanatic
 


 
This, along with the following five categories, was suggested by brilliant American psychologist Theodore Millon, an example of a smart integrative personality vision.
 


 
They often had an over-protective upbringing that nurtured an idealized self-perception. He has some commonality to his paranoid traits with narcissistic personality (they are arrogant, pretentious, and expansive). Still, unlike the narcissist's success, the fanatic collides with reality and fails. Their resentment for the injury they have suffered causes them to seek success through outlandish claims and complex fantasies in which they are the victims of intangible conspiracies and hidden powers. It is common in populist political leaders, dictators, and sect heads. Adolf Hitler fits this perfectly.
 


 
 
 


 
The evil paranoid
 


 
This subtype shares sadistic personality traits besides having a paranoid core. They are convinced that as others seek to attack and subdue them, they must conquer the power to dominate at all costs before they can be dominated. Their language is always threatening, and they pursue revenge on past damage.
 


 
They seek their full autonomy from what they consider to be evil external influences, which, together with the fact that they always arouse intense antipathy, reinforces their antagonism with the group. 
 


 
This subtype is the one that maintains the most fierce and inexhaustible struggle for a permanent power struggle with the environment. They occupy central roles in movies and stories ("ambitious baddie"). Finding one among political leaders is not unusual. The prototype is Joseph Stalin and his acolyte Lavrenti Beria, among others, who saw his fears fulfilled and executed by Nikita Kruschev (yes, after "preventively" massacring millions of Russians).
 


 
 
 


 
The stubborn paranoid
 


 
In this case, obsessive personality traits appear (rigidity, perfectionism, inflexibility, need for control, etc.) but with much greater instability and reality disconnection. When they reach a position of power, they can reach unbearable toxicity levels, imposing unattainable goals and impossible standards.
 


 
The patient defies any external limitation and power expression to regain control and remedy old injustices. He despises all as weak, undisciplined, hypocritical. They are too "sticky," unavailable to defeat, and never let go of what they are fighting. 
 


 
They are the protagonists of decades of administrative disputes, never renouncing their victory—nothing worse than litigating with a stubborn paranoid or being confronted with neighborhood issues. Never give up. Simultaneously, they are dominated by feelings of guilt for their attacks and persecutory fear of revenge from others.
 


 
 
 


 
The querulant paranoid
 


 
Paranoid traits are combined in this subtype with negativistic personality (discontent, pessimistic, stubborn, insecure, and vindictive). He does not pursue power and focuses his efforts on crushingly repairing the damage he believes he is suffered.
 


 
He is sullen, fussy, resentful, jealous, argumentative, obstructive, and accusing. They are always litigating to repair what they consider unfair treatment. They boast of autonomy and renounce their social relationships, but suffer from isolation and present depressive symptoms they hide. In handling affections, it is very ambivalent, and they seek affection while rejecting it.
 


 
 
 


 
The isolated paranoid
 


 
It is a paranoid subtype combining evasive or phobic personality traits. Instead of trying to meet the persecuting elements, they isolate themselves to avoid confrontation and not revenge. They are moody, apprehensive, and critical-sensitive. They are terrified by their enemies' humiliation.
 


 
Your inner world ends up becoming an amalgam of disjointed and distorted ideas that can easily lead to delusion.
 


 
 
 













 
What is Covert Emotional Manipulation?
 


 
 
 


 
In our gut, we may have an awkward feeling that does not suit the words of the manipulator or feel stuck in agreeing to a proposal. Most people respond in ways that exacerbate violence or play into the abuser's hands and handle small and guilty, but withdraw and permit unacceptable conduct. If you had a deceptive parent, recognizing in a partner may be more difficult because it is familiar.
 


 
Ancient wisdom is essential when dealing with a manipulator to "know your opponent" Being able to spot those secret arrows helps you to respond to subtle exploitation strategically. Comprising what they are up to inspire you.
 


 
When people act passively-aggressively, implicit aggression is what tends to be passive or defensive. The degree to which their action is conscious or unconscious is debatable.
 


 
No matter to the survivor. The impact is similar. Being too empathetic places you in danger of being mistreated over and over again. They become violent when someone is threatening you directly or covertly. Psychologist George Simon claims that these secret manipulators consciously say and do stuff for power and influence to get what they want.
 


 
He insists that for character-logically impaired individuals, such as sociopaths and narcissists, and even individuals with a borderline personality disorder, their strategies are not unconscious in the way defensive mechanisms usually work. But their action becomes so ordinary that it is reflexive over time. They are not talking about it, but they are still aware of it.
 


 
 
 













 
Signs of Emotional Manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation is not always obvious… Manipulators can be very good at what they do and go unnoticed. So how to identify such a situation? Read the text and check out eight signs of emotional manipulation
 




 
Manipulate by words
 




 
A handler can say things in a way that seems genuine and honest. They are adept at hiding their true intentions. For example, you might express anger at them for missing a birthday / special occasion, and they respond something like "wow, you make me very sad to think that I would forget your birthday." Or, "Wow, I lie because you make me."
 


 
It is widespread for them to use words to make you feel guilty for something that you are not to blame. It can be a simple matter of forgetting your birthday and stopping even the most severe aggressions.
 




 
Distort facts
 




 
Another form of manipulation is when they distort what happened or what you said. Use phrases out of context or retell a fact in their view. And some are so good that they can make you believe that. Usually, they justify their bad behavior and blame you.
 




 
They are great at making you feel guilty
 




 
Guilt is one of the great weapons of emotional manipulation. It is always you. You stopped talking or talked too much. You worry too much, or you don't care. You're too careful or sloppy… Anyway, the handler will always try to convince you that it's your fault for the bad behavior. And they are great at putting themselves in the victim position.
 




 
Minimize Your Problems
 




 
Emotional manipulators do not care about their problems. Whenever you say something like “wow, I have a migraine,” they will find a way to convince you that they have a much worse problem. They will take your lines and make you feel guilty for saying anything, as their issues are so much worse, their work is more stressful, their lives are harder… or they will try to make you believe that.
 




 
Passive-Aggressive
 




 
Passive-aggressive behavior is widespread in emotional manipulation. They often say good things to you but superficial. Then they will depreciate you, make up some problems, messing up your psychological health. Or they will simply be silent out of nowhere, making him even more guilty, wanting to find out what he "did wrong."
 




 
Energetic Vampires
 




 
Emotional manipulators have a dark cloud that follows them wherever they go. When they enter the room, the cloud envelops everyone, so attention falls to them. Gradually we feel weakened. They are toxic and will always try to take away our joy. The best thing we can do is walk away.
 




 
Aggression
 




 
Handlers often use aggressive language and actions to intimidate you. If they realize that you do not confront them, they will make you feel uncomfortable, and therefore they will get what they want easily. Aggressions tend to get worse and worse and may escalate into abuse as they "advance" in their form of emotional manipulation.
 


 
 
 













 
How to deal with an emotional manipulator?
 


 
 
 




 
Try to Understand This Person's Need for Acceptance
 




 
If the person acting in a manipulative manner is a member of the family or someone with whom you believe the relationship should be maintained and helped, try to analyze their attitudes and understand the origin. It can be insecurity, and it can be a lack of self-esteem. Each of these feelings is a sign of a kind of need, and you can help it, demonstrating that this gap can be filled without depending on, interiorizing, or manipulating others.
 


 
It is worth remembering that it is essential to stop giving in to blackmail and attempts at manipulation if you intend to help. Loving is also knowing how to say no when necessary, and being firm to have a healthy relationship, be it of love, friendship, work, or family, is essential. Dialogue is a crucial thing to seek understanding, too.
 




 
Seek Self-Knowledge and Understand Your Needs
 




 
Self-knowledge is the solution to most of the issues we may have concerning our feelings. A manipulative situation also constitutes a relationship of dependence between both parties. If you tend to get carried away by somebody is blackmail, it is because, perhaps, you also need acceptance and feel loved that makes you give in to the other's will, even without wishing to.
 


 
Knowing your feelings will help you to understand why you tend to give in to manipulation. You will be able to stand firm through this understanding and come to the conclusion that you do not need to act against your convictions and wishes just to be accepted by someone. By demonstrating security over what you want, the manipulative person will see he no longer has power over you.
 




 
When is it best to walk away?
 




 
There are cases where the best thing to do is move away, preventing the manipulative individual from continuing to make you feel ever more dependent and inferior. This attitude is necessary, mainly in abusive-type amorous relationships, in which the other needs to remain in control of the situation and, for this, emotionally and, in the most severe cases, even physically mistreat their partner.
 


 
Breaking a relationship can be very delicate, but you need to recover your freedom and individuality in many cases. Remember always that your happiness and safety must come first, and that it may not be the best choice to sacrifice to stay with someone who uses harmful devices like blackmail.
 


 
Analyze the relationship as a whole and ponder how it usually makes you feel most of the time. That way, you can find the answer to how you should be acting. And if you already know what to do, encourage yourself, and make your physical and mental well-being and happiness a priority.
 


 
A relationship, whether it is loving or not, should be based upon respect for the individualities and desires of each individual. It is essential that you know your feelings and wishes so that when someone tries to manipulate you, you can identify and lead you to act differently than you think. Watch this out, empower yourself, and take control of your life!
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER SIX
 


 
Understanding Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Body language has been known to affect interpersonal relationships significantly. And there are several ways in which basic hand motions can be interpreted. Other movements of the body and other facial expressions can alter the sense of a hand gesture to complicate matters further. And it may not be as straightforward as appearing to be reading body language.
 


 
It is still not known to individuals, but their body movements are an indicator of unwanted actions that can transmit their thoughts to others. Since different personality types show different behaviors, you need to be aware of how you travel, because the behaviors you demonstrate can judge you many times.
 


 
It is important to note that not only the movements we call body language can tell us a lot about other people, but they can also tell us something about ourselves about these physical manifestations of what we think. Body language can be described as a mirror to the soul, as usually, our attitude and physical movements represent what we feel. The way we deal with ourselves will tell us what emotions we feel.
 


 
The fascinating thing about nonverbal communication is it is our product of physiology, environment, and culture. Maybe that is why we can warn others about our behaviors. We may inherit specific characteristics that affect how we project ourselves to others and depending on our relationships, and we continue to use different types of nonverbal communication. You can present yourself to colleagues at work, for example, differently from members of your family. You might be more vigilant in different circumstances, influencing how you respond, because the comfort zone changes.
 


 
There is no way you will be visually showing yourself to others. Although specific movements are intended, many of the body's responses seem more unconscious when we interact with others. Unfortunately, implicit body language often lets us show information about us that we do not want others to know. Some physical indicators can give us hints about our state of emotion or what we might feel.
 


 
We observe and process other people's body language, especially when talking. Facial expressions and hand motions accompany the discussion. If we were not aware of these things, somebody else's words might not have the same effect.
 


 
One way to more effectively perceive the signals from others is to become more self-conscious. Pay attention to the motions and expressions. To convey a feeling, try to see the connexion between your non-verbal communication and the words. You will begin to better understand your interactions with others by learning to read your body language.
 


 
Children are a prime example of our body language, which is unconscious. Sometimes young children express their feelings non-verbally, even after learning the vocabulary. Usually, you can tell a child how frustrated or sad she is. Toddlers and preschoolers tend to be able to express themselves verbally. In the same way, babies and children understand our body language very well.
 


 
Interestingly enough, the moves children use to express their needs will eventually help their brains develop and lead to later verbal communication. Children pay close attention to an adult's face whilst talking to them from the beginning. Why did they not know that? The underlying explanation is genetics, so perhaps the eyes are the portals of the soul!
 


 
 
 


 
Developing
 


 
Sometimes a text is used instead of a word or a sentence, or something is drawn with the hands to complement what is said orally. For example, the signal of what is said goes between quotation marks are made with the index and middle fingers of both hands. For example: to indicate late arrival, the clock is tapped. It belongs to the category of paralanguages, which describe all forms of non-verbal human communication. This includes the most subtle and unconscious movements, including winking and slight eyebrow movements. Also, body language can consist of the use of facial expressions and posture. 
 


 
Paralanguage (including body language) has been extensively studied in social psychology. In everyday discourse and popular psychology, the term is often applied to body language considered involuntary. However, the difference between what is deemed to be voluntary and involuntary body language is often controversial. For example, a smile can be triggered consciously or unconsciously.
 


 
 
 


 
Body posture
 


 
Body posture is the posture of the body or its parts about a reference system, either the orientation of an element of the body with another aspect or with the body as a whole, or its relationship with another person.
 


 
Within the body language, one talks about open or closed postures. The first ones are those postures where there are no barriers such as arms or legs between one interlocutor and others, otherwise in closed postures, where for example, crossed arms are used to isolate or protect the body (unconsciously in many cases). Furthermore, it is essential to consider the ideal positions to speak according to the point, for example:
 




 
In competitive situations: face to face
 


 
To help or cooperate: next door
 


 
To chat: at a right angle
 




 
Head posture
 




 
Side to side movements: denial.
 


 
Up and down movements: assent.
 


 
Above: neutral or evaluation.
 


 
Laterally tilted: interest.
 


 
Tilt down: disapproval, negative attitude.
 




 
Arms pose
 




 
Standard crossing: defensive posture, can also mean insecurity.
 


 
Crossing them while keeping your fists closed indicates a sign of defense and hostility.
 


 
Crossing your arms holding your arms is a sign of restriction.
 




 
Leg pose
 




 
Standard crossing: defensive attitude.
 


 
Cross in 4 (“in Indian”): competition, discussion.
 


 
Cross while standing: discomfort, tension.
 


 
Cross the ankles: used to conceal a negative attitude.
 




 
Important considerations
 


 
If you lean too much towards the other person, you will be invading their personal space, and this should not be done when there is still not much confidence, and you will appear too aggressive.
 


 
Arms crossed are a sign. Keeping your arms crossed is a sign of withdrawal; it means that the person does not want to be intimate, that they do not feel confident, or that they are not entirely well.
 


 
A shrunken posture means boredom.
 


 
Maintaining a relaxed position with slightly open arms and legs demonstrates self-confidence and security.
 


 
Getting closer than you should or a rigid body can demonstrate aggressiveness.
 


 
Showing yourself upright is the best thing for when you want to demonstrate security, courage, and importance in what you do.
 


 
Hands-on the waist: defiance, aggressiveness.
 


 
Thumbs on the waist or pockets: manhood.
 


 
Finger-pointing: challenge.
 


 
 
 


 
The gestures
 


 
A gesture is a form of non-verbal communication executed with some part of the body and produced by the movement of the joints and muscles of the arms, hands, and head.
 


 
The language of gestures allows a variety of feelings and thoughts to be expressed, from contempt and hostility to approval and affection. Virtually all people use gestures and body language in addition to words when they speak. There are ethnic groups and specific communication languages
 
that use many more gestures than the average. Certain types of gestures can be considered culturally acceptable or not, depending on the place and context in which they are performed. Five categories of gestures are distinguished, proposed by Paul Ekman and Wallace Friesen:
 




 
Emblematic gestures or emblems:
 they are signals emitted intentionally and that everyone knows their meaning. (thumb raised)
 


 
Illustrative or illustrative gestures:
 gestures that accompany verbal communication to clarify or emphasize what is said, to impersonate a word in a difficult situation, etc. They are used intentionally. These gestures are very useful in speeches and when speaking in public.
 


 
Regulatory or regulatory gestures of interaction:
 with them, communication is synchronized or regulated, and the channel does not disappear. They are used to take over in conversation, to start and end the interaction, to give way to speak... (shake hands).
 


 
Gestures that express emotional states or displays of affection:
 this type of gesture reflects the emotional state of the person and is the emotional result of the moment. As an example, we can mention gestures that express anxiety or tension, grimaces of pain, triumph, joy, etc. 
 


 
Adaptation or adapting gestures:
 these are gestures that are used to manage emotions that are not wanted to be expressed. Here you can distinguish signs directed at oneself (such as pinching oneself), directed towards objects (pen, pencil, cigar, etc.), and those directed towards other people (such as protecting another person). Adapters can also be unconscious; apparent examples are biting a fingernail or sucking a finger, very common in young children.
 




 
 
 


 
Facial expression
 


 
With the facial expression in many moods and emotions are expressed. It is used to regulate interaction and to reinforce or emphasize the content of the message addressed to the recipient. The facial expression is used to describe the mood, indicate attention, show disgust, joke, blame, reinforce verbal communication, etc. Paul Ekman developed a method to decipher facial expressions while working with Wallace Friesen and Silvan Tomkins. It is a kind of atlas of the face that is called FAST (Facial Affect Scoring Technique). FAST classifies images using photographs (not verbal descriptions) and dividing the face into three areas: the forehead and eyebrows, the eyes, and the rest of the face, that is, the nose, cheeks, mouth, and chin.
 


 
 
 


 
The look
 


 
The gaze is studied separately for its importance, although it is part of the facial expression. The gaze fulfills a series of functions:
 




 
The regulation of the communicative act.
 


 
Source of information.
 


 
Express emotions.
 


 
Communicate the nature of interpersonal relationships.
 




 
 
 


 
The study of the gaze contemplates different aspects, among the most important of which we can mention: the dilation of the pupils, eye contact, the act of blinking, and the way of looking:
 




 
The dilation of the pupils indicates interest and attractiveness, and they dilate when something interesting is seen.
 


 
The number of times you blink per minute is related to calm and nervousness. If you blink a lot, it is a symbol of nervousness and restlessness, and the less you blink, the calmer you will be.
 


 
Eye contact consists of the gaze that one person directs to the gaze of the other. Here we must mention the frequency with which we look at the other person and the maintenance of eye contact.
 


 
The way of looking is one of the most appropriate behaviors to distinguish high-status, dominant, and powerful people from low-status people who are not powerful.
 




 
 
 


 
The smile
 


 
Although the smile is included or can be included in the facial expression, it deserves to be explained in detail. It is used to express happiness, joy, or sympathy. The smile can even be used to make situations more bearable. It can have a therapeutic effect on pessimistic or depressed people.
 




 
Simple smile:
 with this type of smile, an insecure, doubtful message of lack of confidence is transmitted. It should be avoided if you want to give an impression of firmness and confidence. 
 


 
Simple smile of high intensity:
 this smile occurs with a more pronounced separation of the corners of the mouth, and this rise more. A small part of the upper teeth can be seen. It transmits confidence and heat.
 


 
Upper Smile:
 The upper lip retracts so that almost or all of the teeth can be seen. A message of some satisfaction is transmitted by seeing someone.
 


 
Superior smile of high intensity:
 it opens the mouth more, and the teeth are seen more. A light closure of the eyes usually accompanies it. Apart from conveying happiness, it is often used to say a happy question or to represent a funny surprise. It is often used deceptively; for this reason, care must be taken. 
 


 
Wide smile:
 it is one in which the gaze narrows slightly. The upper and lower teeth are fully exposed. This type of smile expresses the highest intensity of joy, happiness, and pleasure. 
 


 
Laughter:
 it is the one that goes beyond the broad one. It is the most contagious and occurs in a group of people.
 




 
 
 













 
Make Body Language Your Superpower
 


 
 
 


 
It is common for tension to invade us in situations of pressure, such as taking exams, speaking in public, job interviews, etc. But did you know that you can easily manipulate your body chemistry to feel safer and more powerful? Studies indicate that you can achieve this by merely practicing specific changes in your body posture before undergoing stressful situations.
 


 
It is already known that our postures and gestures, often unconscious, communicate and allow others to have an idea of
 
how we are or how we feel; this is called the body or non-verbal language.
 


 
Experts in the field of psychology and communication have devoted countless studies to understanding the effects of body language when looking for persuasive communication or an optimistic projection towards others. Still, Amy Cuddy, a specialist in social psychology at Princeton University, highlights that our body language not only influences how others see us but can determine how we feel (literally).
 


 
Cuddy explains that although the smile is the physical and physical way in which we demonstrate the feeling of happiness, studies show that we can consciously provoke the same sense of happiness by holding a pencil between our teeth and smiling for a few seconds. This means that not only does our mind dominate our body, but we can also use our body to manipulate our mental state. 
 


 
According to these same studies, powerful people tend to have more positive, confident, and risky attitudes than non-powerful and insecure people, and this is reflected in their body language. While a secure person shows openness, the insecure person hides his body more in rigid and collected postures. Biologically we can find similar differences between the power poles, where the powerful have high levels of testosterone (hormone of domination) and low levels of cortisol (stress hormone). At the same time, insecure people show low levels of testosterone and high levels. Cortisol. 
 


 
Based on this relationship between our chemistry and our body language, Cuddy carried out several experiments to check whether taking different positions can affect our internal chemistry and, with this, consciously change how we feel. 
 


 
The experiment consisted of taking different types of postures for 2 minutes and then taking saliva samples, gambling, and answering questions to determine the level of power/confidence he felt after adopting the two types of posture.
 


 
Results in individuals who adopted “High Power” positions:
 




 
They decided to bet: 80%
 


 
Testosterone level: 20% increase
 


 
Cortisol level: Decrease by 25%
 




 
Results in individuals who adopted “Low Power” positions:
 




 
They decided to bet: 60%
 


 
Testosterone level: Decrease by 10%
 


 
Cortisol level: 15% increase
 




 
The experiment showed amazing results, noting that with just 2 minutes of practicing the different postures, the internal chemistry of the body changed in significant percentages, determining how individuals felt about themselves and influencing their attitude and decision-making. 
 


 
A second experiment, which involved people practicing the same postures before a job interview, verified the positive effects of adopting "High Power" postures, since those who practiced these postures were more confident and assertive during their interviews, favoring their selection by 85%.
 


 
 
 













 
Detecting Deception, Proceed with Caution
 


 
 
 


 
Do you think you are good at detecting when someone lies?
 


 
Maybe you are. Or perhaps you think you are because, on average, we are only able to discover a lie in 54% of cases. Come on, throwing a coin in the air, and we have almost the same probability of hitting.
 


 
And it is that many of the behaviors that are supposed to accompany a lie (avoid eye contact, get nervous, dilate the pupils, scratch the nose, etc.) can also appear in honest people who are merely shy or have challenging time-intense situations.
 


 
Below you'll find several myths about the science of lying that haven't proven useful.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Lying has its body language
 


 
Although the popular belief is that the body sends signals when we lie, no study has been able to relate a specific sign to deception.
 


 
Why? Because we all behave differently when lying, so do not believe that if someone does not look you directly in the eye or touch your face, they are deceiving you.
 


 
For every study that says liars scratch their noses, there is another that says otherwise. In an investigation, the gestures that appeared or disappeared when people lied were searched, but as you will see below, not enough differences were found to be able to generalize.
 


 
For example, people who lie stare in 67% of cases, but people who tell the truth also stare at 58%. There is nobody gesture that helps you accurately detect when you are being lied to.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Don't trust what they tell you
 


 
Although the general idea is that body language is more important than verbal language, that is also not true.
 


 
Body language may offer clues, but what is said maybe even more reliable. In a 2004 study, a group of police officers watched a series of videos, and those who looked for inconsistencies in verbal cues (contradictions, doubts, etc.) were able to distinguish better lies than those who relied only on body signs (gaze direction, posture changes, etc.).
 


 
When you doubt if someone is telling you the truth or not, the most reliable thing is to find inconsistencies in their history. Later I will show you how.
 


 
 
 


 
3. The direction of the eyes gives clues
 


 
According to NLP (neurolinguistic programming), when someone moves his eyes to his right, it means he is lying, while if he moves his eyes to the left, he tells the truth.
 


 
If that were true, there would be no need to investigate further, and all liars would go with sunglasses, but it is false.
 


 
In this 2012 study demonstrated that the direction in which someone looks is independent of the integrity of his story, so watch those gurus who promise PNL magical powers.
 


 
The people who lie the most do not look sideways or look away. If anything, they look at you more intently because they want to verify that you believe their lie.
 


 
 
 


 
4. The polygraph never fails
 


 
Another myth. As much as junk movies and television shows are trying to sell us the reliability of these devices, in one of the most rigorous studies, their percentage of success was established at only 65%. The main problem is her number of false positives: she often identifies people who are telling the truth as liars.
 


 
The reality is that detecting lies is VERY difficult. The reason is that most of us mix lie with true stories, which allows us to add real details that give more credibility.
 


 
 
 


 
Furthermore, each individual is so unique that there is no universal sign of lying. Not all of us have the same behavior when we lie: while I can avoid eye contact, maybe you will keep it.
 


 
It is for this reason that training to detect lies through the body or verbal language, the success rate reaches at most 60%, only 6 points more than without any preparation.
 


 
 
 













 
How do to know if a person is lying?
 


 
Below I will explain the exact tools to achieve it, but to start, you must be very clear about three fundamental concepts:
 


 
 
 


 
1. Look at the details and behavior changes
 


 
Merely paying attention to detail will do you better at spotting lies. It's that simple.
 


 
When someone lies, small differences may appear in their behavior or the story they are telling, and several studies have shown that focusing your attention on details will improve your ability to detect deception.
 


 
This is why women tend to be more skilled than men: they focus more on specific aspects of the stories and changes in behavior.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Try to isolate yourself from your emotions
 


 
I know it is complicated, but if you get angry, sad, or too happy, you will stop seeing those details.
 


 
When you are very emotional, your mind goes on automatic pilot. Disable some of its rational functions, and you will miss clues that could reveal that the other person is lying to you.
 


 
The most experienced liars want to do just that: put you in an altered state so that you stop asking questions and start making wrong decisions. So, keep a cool head and don't get turned on by big promises or angry at huge suspicions.
 


 
 
 


 
3. In the end, you only have your instinct
 


 
The final step, once you have observed the details as coldly as possible, is to listen to your instincts.
 


 
Trust your intuition, because as it has been scientifically proven, we are more effective detecting lies when we do it unconsciously than if we try to tie all the ends rationally. The reason is that on an irrational level, you can see signs that your conscious mind overlooks.
 


 
So, pay attention, let some time pass, and be guided by your instinct. You will increase your chances of hitting.
 


 
Although these three keys are essential, to have greater certainty that someone is lying to you, you need your signs of deception, such as changes in behavior or contradictions in their history, to be evident.
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER SEVEN
 


 
The Secrets of Body
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The capital importance of body language
 


 
Our bodies cannot show anything but what is in us. Our emotions use the sounding board. Therefore, we understand that our body's non-verbal part of communication always reflects our mental state, whatever the situation. Indeed, where does it come from, if not our psyche?
 


 
Body language is subject to physical law: energy does not vanish; it transforms. As electricity becomes light, heat, or movement, our psyche becomes body language.
 


 
Beware, the same gesture may have different meanings. For example, a person with arms crossed, a gesture generally interpreted as a negative signal. Indeed, arms crossed the pass to outsource refusal, withdrawal, skepticism, antipathy, etc. Sometimes this interpretation is true, but not always. What about a man crossed, waiting for the bus? Is it expressly rejected? If so, to whom? Facing the bus? To other people like him at the bus stop? What if nobody exists? In this situation, arms crossed indicate nothing but being able to do nothing but wait. No reason to move, our man folds his arms.
 


 
To correctly decipher body language, you must first consider the action context. Also, as with verbal language, an "expression" that does not fit into a situation will have a high potential for misunderstanding.
 


 
False posture can reveal insecurity, fear, distrust, etc.
 


 
 
 


 
On the other hand, the right posture gives the impression of strength, power, and confidence.
 


 
Understand more about using body signals to convey the desired impression.
 


 
 
 


 
Negative body language
 


 
Often, during a conversation, you can pass negative body language without realizing it.
 


 
Facial expressions and gestures end up showing several details.
 


 
Some negative postures that you should avoid in your client meetings:
 




 
hands-on-hips or pockets;
 


 
knees pointing to the exit door;
 


 
legs wide open;
 


 
crossed arms.
 




 
These attitudes are perceived, even if unconsciously, by the other person, and can ruin a sale's progress.
 


 
Know other signs you should avoid avoiding transmitting the wrong body language.
 


 
 
 


 
1- Hand to mouth
 


 
Experts analyze that when a person is not telling the truth, they usually cover their mouths.
 


 
Variations of this posture addiction are:
 




 
rub your lips;
 


 
touch the chin;
 


 
put objects in front of the mouth.
 




 
 
 


 
2- Compressed lips
 


 
Another negative body language is to compress your lips.
 


 
This act shows that the person is trying to avoid saying what he thinks.
 


 
That is, hiding your lips reveals that you don't want to answer any questions.
 


 
 
 


 
3- Defocused look
 


 
Body language says a lot by looking.
 


 
A look without focus, or looking up and to the right, indicates confusion.
 


 
This is because, when looking away, the person is looking for a mental image.
 


 
Therefore, he shows a lack of clarity in his speech, as well as insecurity.
 


 
 
 


 
4- Forehead contracted
 


 
In conversation, if the other person wrinkles his forehead, that's not a good sign.
 


 
These horizontal lines show a certain level of tension, doubt, or nervousness, which is a bad sign of body language.
 


 
 
 


 
5- Restricted hand and arm movements
 


 
Keeping your hands behind your back or clinging to your body conveys the message of little confidence.
 


 
Another gesture to be avoided is to put your hands back or feet crossed behind the chair.
 


 
These are signs of discomfort.
 


 
 
 













 
Body language of self-confidence
 


 
 
 


 
It is not enough just to understand what should not be done.
 


 
It is essential that the attitude also demonstrates what you want to expose.
 


 
Powerful body language impresses customers, colleagues, or anyone.
 


 
When showing authority, performance in professional and personal life tends to increase.
 


 
Everyone likes to be around someone who feels safe in their skin.
 


 
And that is what you will learn. So, stay tuned for tips.
 


 
 
 


 
1- Be dominant in the handshake
 


 
When talking to a business partner or customers, pay attention when complying.
 


 
Much more than a handshake, this gesture shows who dominates the conversation.
 


 
If you extend your hand with your palm facing downwards, it indicates that you lead the conversation.
 


 
If you do the opposite, palm up, you expect the other to take the lead.
 


 
Using hugs in body language in business is rarer, but it can happen when there are a deep friendship and companionship.
 


 
But be aware: in certain cultures, this is unacceptable.
 


 
 
 


 
2- Breathe deeply
 


 
The rhythm of breathing reveals many signs.
 


 
When inhaling and exhaling in a superficial and fast way, the impression that remains is of stress, nervousness, and fear.
 


 
If you want to show self-confidence, use a technique: take a deep breath until you feel the wider abdomen and the ribs expanding.
 


 
Slow, deep breathing helps to control anger and anxiety.
 


 
 
 


 
3- Fix your eyes between the other person's eyebrows
 


 
Speaking, looking into someone's eyes can be difficult for many.
 


 
However, the way of facing the other shows who is in control of the debate.
 


 
An easy way to use the look of power is to imagine a point between the person's eyebrows and keep your eyes there.
 


 
That way, you will be showing security.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Speak calmly
 


 
The voice is essential to get the right message across. It helps to convey the feeling of credibility and authority.
 


 
During your speech, articulate each word well, take breaks, and breathe easily between sentences.
 


 
This ensures that the other person understands what is being said.
 


 
 
 


 
5- Look for a neutral posture
 


 
Crossed arms indicate annoyance or that you are closed to the subject.
 


 
However, the hands beside the body, in a light way, is a message of neutrality.
 


 
A good tip is to try to mirror the gestures of whoever is talking to you.
 


 
This creates an atmosphere of sympathy and friendship.
 


 
With these body language techniques, you will pass on the correct image to your interlocutors.
 


 
With them, you will make negotiations with your customers much more straightforward and gain respect in your work environment.
 


 
 
 













 
Reading Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
Reading body language may help to assess the feeling behind or instead of the words spoken. The adult can understand quickly, and instinctively, that when they see the child screaming and covering their ears, a child is frightened by thunder. However, there are misconceptions about body language, which could cause miscommunication unless the whole-body language is read.
 


 
The eyes have long been called the windows to the soul, and it may be this concept that created the greatest myth in bodies of reading. It is widely assumed that if a person avoids eye contact or does not hold it, that person does not say the facts. This is a mistaken assumption though popularly known. Pathological liars may maintain sustained contact with the eyes because they realize most people assume that looking away from the eyes shows an untruth. People who say the truth do not keep eye contact because they clearly state evidence and feel no need to convince anyone of this.
 


 
When a person is depressed or uncomfortable, and avoidance of eye contact occurs. For example, a child being chastised by a parent would always look down on the ground instead of looking in the parent's eyes. Painfully shy or nervous people, too, are having a tough time meeting another person's eyes in conversation. Someone with little true knowledge of reading body language would find the people in each of these instances to be lying by standard error because, instead, the child shows the position of authority, the adult, they are contrite, and the shy person shows a typical sign of distress or uncomforted.
 


 
In addition to the eye movement, the overall body language used needs to be looked at. Fidgeting, drumming fingers, or playing with hair matched to a lack of eye contact are signs that a person is dissatisfied with the situation or topic of discussion. Still, eyes fixed on a distant point by a person with arms crossed, one who is attentive to the conversation, shows, instead, deep attention and intense thinking on the topic of discussion.
 


 
The precise interpretation of body language may provide an insight into another person's thoughts, feelings, and emotions. However, to read correctly, it is essential to remember to look at the entire body's movements, or words, rather than treating part of the body as separate from the other parts.
 


 
 
 













 
Keys to Reading Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
Body language is the type of communication a person uses to respond to circumstances, including facial expressions. Among people, more than 54% of the way we communicate with each other consists of body language, 39% consists of the way the voice is used, and just 7% consists of the words spoken. Developing one's ability to interpret and understand gestures and signs of body language would be of great benefit because it will help to better understand and interact with other human beings.
 


 
Body language involves body expressions, gestures, eye contact, muscle tension, skin coloring, breathing rate, etc. Of course, you should remember that body language is different from people to people and various nationalities and cultures. Therefore, it is always good to check what is seen in a person. This can be achieved by answering similar questions and endeavoring to better-known individuals.
 


 
There is also a lot of myths about interpreting body language. Most deceptive books and internet guides don't teach people the right thing. There's the truth you need to learn about this, while popular reasoning can trick you into believing a person's ability to read body language is the real secret to finding lies. Some important body language secrets are:
 


 
 
 


 
Posture
 


 
In most situations, if you take the correct pose, you should be able to build the right impression in people. Leaning a little towards a person can create an image of friendliness. It could also mean that you have an interest in others. At the same time, seeing a level head establishes a sense of self-assurance and trust.
 


 
 
 


 
Legs
 


 
When a person is anxious, the legs are always moving around. It happens when the person tells lies and is bored too. It is safer to keep those legs crossed or even to give the opposite impression, to appear confident and polite to others.
 


 
 
 


 
Eye contact
 


 
If you keep healthy eye contact, you show concern and respect for others. And you still need to find a balance. When you hold too much eye contact, the other person would feel self-conscious. Sometimes, if you don't have enough eye contact, you can make the other person believe you're not involved in what's being addressed.
 


 
 
 


 
Arms
 


 
If you have main arms crossed, you can make yourself look nervous or defensive. On the other hand, over, if you hold open arms, you will make yourself comfortable and able to embrace others.
 


 
 
 


 
Distance
 


 
If you hold a person close, you can make yourself look pushy or put yourself in his face. At the same time, keep a distance away may mean that you don't care about what's being addressed or don't care about it at all.
 


 
You can learn a lot about other people through body language. Many people show all sorts of thoughts in the way they push the body. Here are examples of how to discover other people's opinions:
 


 
 
 


 
Confidence
 


 
A comfortable person will always stand tall, holding eye contact sold while smiling at you at the same time. The person can go even further with the hands when making gestures.
 


 
 
 


 
Defensive
 


 
Whoever holding the defensive end always stop facial expressions. Another thing is they keep the eye in touch with nothing. This is a pose that may also be combined with the person involver’s anxiety or confusion.
 


 
 
 


 
Telling lies
 


 
Those saying lies keep eye contact little or no. The person may also hold the hands before the mouth while speaking. The person can be physical with you, but there is no mind. During this moment, the respiration rate often rises for fear of being caught telling lies. It's also possible that a poker player who's bluffed at the pot (telling a lie) would reveal certain tells.
 


 
It is very critical that a person understands the language of his or her body and the sort of impression that is passed on to others. That is beyond knowing the body language of the other people you come in touch with. A strong understanding of the body language helps to show contact and interaction with others.
 


 
It is very critical that a person understands the language of his or her body and the sort of impression that is passed on to others. That is beyond knowing the body language of the other people you come in touch with. A strong understanding of body language helps to show contact and interaction with others.
 


 
 
 













 
Tips for Reading Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
Eye movement, gestures, posture, and facial expressions are some of the characteristics of human body language. American human behavior expert Eric Barker explains that it is best to look at "unconscious behaviors that are not easily controlled and may contain a message." Can anyone decipher this language? Barker reveals eight tips.
 


 
 
 


 
Use Common Sense
 


 
For the expert, analyzing the context is essential. Crossing your arms can mean adopting a defensive posture or even trying to deceive you. However, if it is cold or if the person concerned is sitting in an armless chair, the meaning can be different (much simpler and harmless).
 


 
 
 


 
Observe the Mime
 


 
Imitating a gesture or verbal expression may mean that the person is in tune with you. The act of agreeing with someone or something is difficult to fake, so the expert believes that in these cases, the best thing to do is to believe.
 


 
 
 


 
Nerve Energy
 


 
The other's level of activity can reveal your interest and enthusiasm for what you are saying. A study from the University of Manchester in England states that women shake their feet when they are interested in a man. Men, on the other hand, tend to do so when they are nervous.
 


 
 
 


 
Consistency
 


 
Someone who reveals a fluid and consistent speech, emphasizing certain words, demonstrates control and concentration. Showing determination as they speak, these people are difficult to influence (and seduce).
 


 
 
 


 
Don't Care About Individual Signs
 


 
It is not possible to know what a person means by body language through a single action. It is best to look at the actions as a whole, as two or three signals can help identify what goes in the other person's head. 
 


 
 
 


 
Create A Reference
 


 
Uneasiness and the habit of always talking do not necessarily reveal any problem. However, something may be wrong when these people suddenly become calm.
 


 
 
 


 
Consider Your Previous Considerations
 


 
A judgment about another person will be affected if you have a prior impression, whether positive or negative. The tendency is to give the benefit of the doubt to someone you think is similar to you.
 


 
 
 


 
The Most Important Thing Is to Look at The Whole Context
 


 
Eric Barker argues that the ability to understand body language will increase when "understanding that body language is part of a larger context. Then you will begin to pay attention to other facets of interaction: voice, appearance, clothing, etc."
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
EIGHT
 


 
The Five C's of Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Regardless of an organization's focus or size, communication is often identified as an area of organizational improvement. Paradoxically, this deficiency survives for decades, being on the list of steering committees more than ever. The question is this:
 


 
How can it be that in an era where information sharing is easier than ever, effective communication remains such a common business challenge?
 


 
Does not it seem surprising that when sharing information is the easiest, organizations have not made progress in offering their employees a useful communication framework?
 


 
It is not surprising in many ways. Communication preferences vary between people; some prefer written information, other visual communication, and much more verbal communication.
 


 
Interest may also vary; what a collaborator wants or needs to know can differ significantly from what matters to another. Similarly, communication remains mostly dependent on people, and the lack of a practical communication framework makes each leader use his "manual" and interpretations, which can cause flow, type, and quantity information to vary significantly between departments and locations where different employees work.
 


 
 
 


 
Effective and high-performance communication
 


 
Despite these differences in communication preferences and practices, high-performing organizations have taught us a direct path to better organizational communication.
 


 
Over the past fourteen years, our research and work have enabled us to decipher effective models and methodologies for their development. We frame the four basic characteristics of high-performance communication:
 


 
Let us see briefly what is behind each axis that defines the characteristics of high-performance organizational communication:
 


 
 
 




 
Consistent - Regular and predictable communication in any circumstance.
 




 
Ensuring regular and predictable communication is essential to building trust in collaborators and teams of an organization. To do this, select from several approaches to improve information flow through organizations. Some of our preferences for greater organizational efficiency are the C-Suite blog, the weekly newsletter, leadership pills, quarterly town hall meetings, and management breakfasts.
 


 
Whichever option is chosen, the most important thing is that leaders carefully consider the ability to fulfill their commitments without deviations before committing. Otherwise, announcing a new initiative that does not execute as expected or that does not continue for a significant period will only break the framework of mutual trust to improve communication.
 


 
This consistency should also include monitoring and reporting on previously discussed topics in which future actions or developments were planned. Similarly, ensuring adequate answers to any questions arising from organizational communication is a fundamental aspect of consistency.
 




 
Communication 
 




 
A culture of organizational transparency requires honest communication.
 


 
Even if the communication is conducted regularly, if it does not address the interests of the collaborators or does not address what is relevant in the day-to-day running of the organization, our teams may feel alienated or even disappointed by the organization's reality.
 


 
In this sense, a current issue may also have an uncertain framework or may not be thoroughly discussed. In these situations, collaborators appreciate their leaders' recognition on the matter, even when much of the information about it is unknown or cannot be communicated.
 


 
An honest statement about what is known and can be shared with a communication plan will establish honesty as an organizational communication value.
 


 
Convenient - Timely
 


 
Another way to ensure that the organization's communications are convenient and meaningful is to strive for its timeliness, that is, for its punctuality. In this sense, we must understand the opportunity in three phases of time:
 




 
Before:
 What information or preparation should be provided to collaborators and teams so that they are well-positioned to innovate, meet the future's needs, and take advantage of the key opportunities it can provide?
 


 
During:
 What is happening that may provoke questions from collaborators and teams that require more information?
 


 
Next:
 What milestones have been achieved recently that can be celebrated, learned, or shared to build on?
 




 
Organizations typically have room to improve communications in each of these phases, but the "during" phase can be particularly tricky when something is not entirely clear or causes concern among teams.
 


 
Again, in these cases, communicating about known information promptly is better than saying nothing until every response is known. Rumors are the worst enemy of high-performance organizational communication.
 


 
 
 


 
Complementarity
 


 
In the previous point, the leader and his role in coordinating team members were discussed, choosing the best prepared for each task. The complementarity is to count on the team with people with particular knowledge and skills to respond to the needs of the clients globally.
 


 
The training and experience, both personally and professionally, will enrich the results of everyday work.
 


 
Therefore, whenever possible, it is essential to form teams in which their members complement each other. Knowing each person beforehand favors the coordination of tasks. It is an excellent option to bet on the creation of teams of people with different profiles, even if the coordination is more complicated since, in this way, the results will be enriched.
 


 
 
 


 
Collaborative - connecting creativity and talent
 


 
Ensuring an organization shares relevant information consistently, reliably, and time is critical to high-performance organizational communication. But that is not enough.
 


 
Communication must be a conversation that connects hierarchies, divisions, functions, locations in both directions to create an ecosystem of mutual trust and real commitment.
 


 
Based on our experience in developing worldwide high-performance teams, corporate social media provides the perfect environment. However, to make conversation possible, leaders play a fundamental role as role models, eliminating fear and connecting opportunities.
 


 
When this happens, corporate social media conversations create learning, collaboration, re-application, and innovation bonds.
 


 
 
 













 
How to identify the subtle inputs sent by the body
 


 
 
 


 
The brain is your boss
 


 
While you are doing an important math test, you know your brain is very hard at work. But your brain does more than just recall formulae. Do your hands start sweating when the test is given? It is because the brain works. Do you feel a great relief when you realize the answer to a question is known? That is your brain too. And yes, it is also your brain that is responsible for the daydream about the big party you are going to be going to next Friday.
 


 
The brain is the bossiest organ in the whole body: it commands virtually every other part of the body, continually telling them what to do, no matter if you are aware of it or not. Not only does it control what you think and feel, how you learn things, and remember them and how you move, but it also controls many things you are less aware of, such as a heartbeat, sleepy, or awake.
 


 
 
 


 
Daily brain and nervous system
 


 
If the brain is imagined as a central computer that controls all of the organism's functions, then the nervous system becomes a network or network that sends messages in both directions between the brain and the various parts of the body. This is done through the backbone, starting from the brain and going down the back and containing filaments linked to other organs and parts of the body. This is done via the spinal cord.
 


 
Upon entering the brain, a message tells the body how to respond. For example, if you accidentally touch a hot oven, the nerves in your skin can send a message of pain to your brain. The brain responds by sending a message to delete muscles. Luckily this neurological relay race takes much less time to read its definition!
 


 
 
 


 
How the brain functions
 


 
The human brain is extremely lightweight and weighs just over 3 pounds (1,360 g), considering all it does. It does have a multitude of folds and grooves, however, which give it the surface to store all the essential body details.
 


 
The spinal cord, meanwhile, is about 18 inches long (45 cm) and just below 2 cm thick, with a long bundle of nerve tissue. This extends from the bottom of the brain down to the backbone edge. During the whole journey, specific nerves radiate to the rest of the body. These form the peripheral nervous system.
 


 
A series of ring-shaped, intertwining bones called the vertebrates protecting the brain and spinal cord with bones, the brain with the skull bones, and the spinal cord. The membrane layers called meninges, and a special fluid named cerebrospinal fluid are both protected and cushioned—the fluid assists in protecting, sustaining, and removing excess nerve tissue.
 


 
The brain consists of three principal components: the forebrain, the midbrain, and the hindbrain.
 


 
 
 


 
The forebrain
 


 
The forebrain is the human brain's most voluminous and complicated part. It consists of the telencephalon — the area with all the folds and grooves typically reproduced in brain illustrations — and other structures below the telencephalon.
 


 
The telencephalon contains information that makes us feel and move: intelligence, memory, personality, emotions, speech, and ability. Some specific telencephalon areas are responsible for processing different information types. They are called lobes, with four lobes in total: frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital.
 


 
The telencephalon is divided into two halves, called hemispheres, connected by a bundle of nerve fibers (corpus callosum) that allows them to communicate.
 


 
While the two halves may seem identical as an image and reflection, many scientists believe they have different functions. The left hemisphere is logical, analytical, and objective. Law is more intuitive, creative, and subjective. So, while solving a math problem, you use the left hemisphere, while you use the right when listening to music. Scientists believe that the left hemisphere predominates in some people or the right and that no hemisphere predominates in others, since both hemispheres are used to the same extent.
 


 
The telencephalon's outermost layer is called the cortex (also known as "grey matter"). The information the five senses collect reaches the brain through the spinal cord. This information is then sent to other nervous system parts for further processing. For example, when you touch a hot oven, this information will not only be processed to move your hand but will also be sent to other parts of the brain to help you remember not to do it again.
 


 
Thalamus, hypothalamus, and hypophysis are inside the forebrain. The thalamus transmits signals from sensory organs such as eyes, ears, nose, and fingers to the cerebral cortex. The hypothalamus controls temperature, thirst, appetite, sleep patterns, and other body processes automatically. It also regulates growth hormones, metabolism, mineral and fluid balance, sexual maturation, and tension.
 


 
 
 


 
The midbrain
 


 
The midbrain (midbrain), located below the central part of the forebrain, acts as a master of ceremonies, coordinating all the messages that reach the brain and those that go to the spinal cord.
 


 
 
 


 
The hindbrain
 


 
The hindbrain (brain pons) is located below the posterior part of the telencephalon and encompasses the cerebellum and medulla. The cerebellum - also called a "little brain" because it looks like a small-scale version of the brain; it controls balance, movement, and coordination. The bridge and the medulla, together with the midbrain, make up the so-called brain stem. The brain stem receives, sends, and coordinates all brain messages. It also controls many functions that the body automatically performs, such as breathing, heart rate, blood pressure, swallowing, digestion, and blinking.
 


 
 
 


 
The way the nervous system works
 


 
A multitude of small cells called neurons depends primarily on the basic functioning of the nervous system. The brain contains millions of those cells, which are specialized in many types of functions. For example, sensory neurons pick up sensory information in the eyes, ears, nose, tongue, and skin and send it to the brain. Motor neurons transmit messages from the brain and send them to the rest of the body.
 


 
All neurons transmit information to each other through a complex electrochemical process, establishing connections with each other that affect the way we think, learn things, move, and behave.
 


 
 
 


 
Intelligence, learning, and memory
 


 
When you learn something, messages repeatedly travel from one neuron to another. Then the brain creates neuronal connexions (or pathways) to make it easier and better.
 


 
The brain is extremely adaptable to children. When one part of a child's brain is injured, another part often performs some of the functions lost. But as we get older, the brain has a harder time creating new connexions or neural networks, making it harder for us to learn new tasks or change established behavior. That is why many scientists believe it is important to keep challenging our brains by proposing new learning and establishing new connexions, as this will help keep the mind active for the rest of our lives.
 


 
Memory is another dynamic brain function. The things we do, learn, and see our first processed in the cerebral cortex. Then if that information is sufficiently important to be worth remembering permanently, it is sent to other parts of the brain (such as the hippocampus and the amygdala) to keep it in long-term memory. As these messages travel through the mind, connexions (pathways) are created as memory foundations.
 


 
 
 


 
Movement
 


 
Different parts of the telencephalon are responsible for moving other parts of the body. The left side of the brain controls movements on the right side of the body, and the right side of the brain controls movements on the left side of the body. For example, when you kick a soccer ball with your right foot, the left cerebral hemisphere is in charge of sending the message that allows you to do it.
 


 
 
 


 
Basic bodily functions
 


 
The autonomous nervous system is part of the peripheral nervous system, and it controls a large number of processes in the body, such as breathing, digestion, sugaring (or sweating), which we do not have to consider. The autonomous nervous system consists of two subsystems, together with the sympathetic and the parasympathetic nervous systems.
 


 
The nervous system, like a robbery, is sympathetic and prepares the body for rapid responses. The sympathetic nervous system makes the heart pump faster when something dangerous happens, so it sends more blood to the different parts of the body, which may need it. It also causes the adrenal glands above the kidneys to release adrenaline, which helps to give muscles additional strength for rapid escape. This process is termed a response to "fight or flight."
 


 
The parasympathetic nervous system does precisely the opposite; it prepares the rest of the body. It also helps the digestive system, so that the body can assimilate the nutrients in the food we eat effectively.
 


 
 
 


 
The senses
 


 
Your eyes can see your best friend approaching. But if you didn't have a brain, you wouldn't even recognize it. Your favorite pizza is sure to be delicious. But if you didn't have a mind, your taste buds wouldn't let you know if you're eating a pizza or the cardboard box it came from. None of the sense organs would be of any use without sensory information processing in the brain.
 




 
Eyes.
 The view probably tells us much more about the world around us than any other sense. The light that enters our eyes projects an inverted image onto the retina. The retina transforms light into nerve signals and sends them to the brain. The brain inverts the image so that we see it from the right and tells us what it is that we are seeing.
 


 
Ear.
 All the sounds we hear are the result of sound waves that enter our ears and cause vibrations in our eardrums. Those vibrations are transferred along the ossicle chain of the middle ear and transformed into nerve signals. Then the cerebral cortex processes those signals and tells us what we are hearing.
 


 
Taste.
 The tongue contains clusters of sensory cells called taste buds that react to chemicals in food. The taste buds respond to the sweet, sour, salty, and bitter flavors. They are responsible for sending messages to the areas of the cerebral cortex responsible for processing flavor.
 


 
Smell.
 The olfactory cells in the mucosa that lines the inside of the nostrils react to the chemicals that we breathe in and send messages to the brain through specific nerves. According to experts, the brain can distinguish between more than 10,000 different smells. With such a highly developed sensitivity, it is not surprising that researchers suggest that smells are intimately linked to memories.
 


 
Touch.
 The skin has more than 4 million sensory receptors — mainly cantered on the fingers, language, and lips — that catch touch, sound, temperature, and pain-related details. To process and react, send them to the brain.
 




 
 
 


 
Brain conditions
 


 
Since the brain controls practically everything, when there is a problem in mind, it is usually severe and can affect many parts of the body. Hereditary diseases, brain disorders associated with mental illness, and trauma to the head can affect how the brain works and disrupt other parts of the body's daily activities.
 


 
Here are some of the problems that can affect the brain:
 


 
Brain tumors.
 A tumor is an abnormally caused tissue growth. A tumor in the brain can grow very slowly, causing very few symptoms until it reaches a significant size. Also, cancer can grow and spread rapidly, causing severe and rapidly deteriorating symptoms.
 


 
Tumors of the brain may be benign or malignant. Benign ones are generally limited to a specific area and can be surgically cured if they are in places where they can be removed without damaging adjacent tissues. Malignant tumors are cancerous and tend to grow and spread more quickly.
 


 
Cerebral palsy.
 Cerebral paralysis results from a developmental defect or brain injury that is violent, labor-related, or early years. Cerebral paralysis affects the motor areas of the brain. An individual with cerebral paralysis may have an average understanding of severe mental or developmental delays.
 


 
Cerebral paralysis can affect body movement in many ways. In milder cases of cerebral palsy, the individual concerned may have only slight weakness in the muscles of the arm and leg. In other cases, a higher degree of motor disability can occur-the person may have trouble speaking and making basic movements like walking.
 


 
Epilepsy.
 Epilepsy is a condition of the nervous system that can cause seizures. Partial seizures only affect specific areas of the brain, and symptoms vary depending on the epileptic focus's location. Other seizures, called generalized seizures, involve a larger part of the brain and are generally associated with the body's uncontrolled movements and loss of consciousness. Although, in many cases, doctors don't know its cause, epilepsy can be related to brain injuries, tumors, or infections. The tendency to develop epilepsy can be inherited from the family.
 


 
Headache.
 There are many types of headaches; the most frequent are:
 


 
tension headache (the most common pain of all) is caused by accumulated muscle tension in the head, neck, and shoulders migraine is a strong and recurring headache of unclear cause Outbreak headache is often considered a form of migraine
 


 
Migraines can appear with or without notice and last for several hours or days. The tendency to have a migraine seems to have a hereditary basis. A person with migraines can experience such an episode when exposed to a "trigger" (for example, a particular food), and may experience dizziness, numbness, nausea, sensitivity to light, and see zigzagging lines.
 


 
Meningitis and encephalitis.
 These are infections of the brain and spinal cord that are usually caused by bacteria or viruses. Meningitis is an inflammation of the membranes that line the brain and spinal cord, and encephalitis, an inflammation of brain tissue. Both of these disorders can cause permanent brain damage.
 


 
Mental illness.
 In terms of thinking and working, mental illness encompasses a broad range of issues. Experts know that some mental illnesses are associated with structural or chemical abnormalities present in the brain. Some mental illnesses are inherited, but although researchers know those illnesses are inherited, they have yet to identify their cause. Brain injuries and drug and alcohol abuse can also trigger some mental illness.
 


 
Signs of chronic mental illness, such as bipolar disorder or schizophrenia, may begin to manifest during childhood. Mental illnesses that can affect teens include depression, eating disorders like bulimia or anorexia nervosa, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and phobias.
 


 
Cranioencephalic trauma.
 Traumatic brain injuries fall into two categories: internal and external (usually affecting the scalp). Internal trauma can affect the skull, the inside of the blood vessels of the brain. Fortunately, only the scalp is injured in most falls and blows to the head, which is often more fearsome than dangerous. Internal trauma is usually more severe because the skull acts as a delicate brain-protective helmet.
 


 
Concussions are a type of traumatic internal brain injury which causes a temporary loss of normal brain function. Repeated concussions can permanently damage the brain. Practice in sport is one of the activities where adolescents suffer the most concussions. Therefore, when practicing sports, you have to wear the appropriate protective equipment and stop practicing it when you are suffering a traumatic brain injury.
 


 
 
 













 
Mastering the Secrets of Non-Verbal Communication
 


 
 
 


 
In this section, I will explain how to learn non-verbal communication and master it perfectly until you can get what you want from people by using the right levers. But before going into the details, I must give you this essential little reminder to understand what it is all about.
 


 
Do you know why most people hate phone calls? Because they unconsciously feel that they are restrained in their expression with their interlocutors. They think that they cannot communicate fully, as in a face-to-face dialogue. They know that there is a lack of data, of information, in what they transmit. Why? It's simple: on the phone, everything goes through the words expressed. The only non-verbal communication is in the tone of the voice—everything else, body language, micro-expressions, all that, it doesn't exist on the phone.
 


 
 
 


 
Why it is essential to learn nonverbal communication:
 


 
Specialists agree that non-verbal communication represents 70 to 80% of the message transmitted to the other party in a human conversation or exchange.
 


 
I do not know if you do, but it is huge. Imagine a conversation in which 80% of words are deleted. Or a book is removing 80 percent of chapters. At this point, non-verbal communication is essential.
 


 
There is another thing communications specialists agree on: you cannot communicate. This means that your body language always expresses something, even if you try to communicate nothing. Even 'non-communication' is communication. And it will influence your interlocutor, who will see a closed posture there, sending us a message.
 


 
If your goal is to learn non-verbal communication, you will make the right choice, as it will open many doors for you. Without using words, you can influence your interlocutors, get your ideas across smoothly. Above all, decode what people say beyond their words. This will allow you to 'understand' people, feel their needs, and quickly gain confidence by anticipating what they cannot express in words.
 


 
Nonverbal communication is a second language. It is better than that: it is a language that does not lie because 99 % of people do not even realize everything; they are under-communicating with their bodies. Knowing how to read body language is like reading the minds of people; it is a kind of superpower (and you quickly become addicted), like The Mentalist.
 


 
 
 


 
How to decode non-verbal communication
 


 
Every gesture, every posture, every micro-expression sends out signals to the person that is before you. A slight eyebrow lift, a crossing of the arms, a rocking foot movement, all the gestures you make without realizing it means something, and your interlocutor is unconsciously translating them.
 


 
Besides, all human beings know how to acknowledge the significant signals of nonverbal communication. I am not going to list you; a broad smile in the vast majority of cases means you feel good, your clenched fist means anger, and tears mean sadness ...
 


 
I will reassure you if you know that for the following: you can learn the body language. The main task is to detect the emotions less noticeable or less marked. Everyone notices this is not complicated when someone has a huge tantrum.
 


 
On the other hand, it becomes more subtle and requires training to be able to spot hidden, buried emotions, such as when we tackle a sensitive subject for someone, or when we offend a person or even know if they lie to us. How to get there here.
 


 
 
 


 
Sharpen your sense of observation
 


 
The first step in non-verbal communication learning is to work on your sense of observation to spot any small signs of feeling or emotion in your interlocutors. Most people's signals are quite subtle. Knowing the emotional state of a person who has taken the habit of hiding his emotions since entering adulthood is not necessarily easy.
 


 
So, you have to look for small signals. When you speak, for example, look at the person's face, especially their eyebrows, which may show astonishment, joy, anger, etc. depending on their movements or position. Likewise, remember to watch the hands (is the person twisting their fingers? Are they lying on the table? In the pocket? Etc), the general body posture (closed or open), also watch the lips (especially the slight mouth grin, which also expresses many things).
 


 
In poker's language, we are talking about 'tells,' talking about small, almost invisible gestures describing the player's emotional state, knowing if he is bluffing or not. You have to learn to spot in people, in everyday life, to decode their emotions, intentions, and inner states. And no secret, you have to work on your sense of observation. Poker is also a great way to develop it (both to 'read' others and to master your body language). If you are new to this game, find web pages to help you practice better. Then, I recommend you find a club near you to play in real life and face intense observation situations directly. You will see, there is something really fun discovering others' emotions.
 


 
 
 


 
Cross the different information received
 


 
Keep in mind that each of these elements taken out of context does not necessarily mean much. Someone who touches his nose is not necessarily lying or preparing a bad blow; he may simply have something that tickles his nostril. On the other hand, if you have a fleeting glance, contact with the nose, gestures of the hand a little too pronounced, and that it is coupled with a certain tone in the voice, then yes, you certainly have some face to one who lies to you.
 


 
What I want you to understand is that we should not conclude too quickly. The woman who touches her hair to seduce the man in front of her is a myth. This only means something if the rest of her body language communicates interest to her interlocutor (leaning forward, open posture, body language modeled on the one she appreciates, etc.).
 


 
Tell yourself that you need at least two distinct signs to get an idea of
 
the person's emotional state in front of you.
 


 
 
 


 
Trust your instinct, your sixth sense
 


 
There are dictionaries for non-verbal communication, body language. But there is something at least as powerful in my opinion: your sixth sense. Learn to listen to your little voice inside you, your gut feeling, which tells you “this guy is lying,” or “he doesn't believe me,” “I hurt him,” etc. By working to improve your sense of observation, you will develop a real ability to feel what the person feels in front of you immediately. Believe me. You will be less often mistaken in being attentive to your little inner voice which tries to slip its good advice to you, rather than by referring to any dictionary of non-verbal communication, as complete as it is.
 


 
 
 


 
Practice as much as possible
 


 
When you get there, you will already have outstanding body language decoding. You can understand more details than other people and can be more subtle when interacting with others.
 


 
You must constantly train to advance quickly. See people around you, public transport, cafes, etc. Do not miss any knowledge that comes before your eyes.
 


 
One great exercise I can offer is putting on a movie or series you like, turning off the volume. Observe actors' movements, facial expressions, successive postures. And try to guess what is happening—recognizing conditions. Correct the exercise by doing the same scene with the music, to see if you only drop on the characters' emotions. I did this Big Bang Theory exercise for my part, but it works for everything!
 


 
Besides, the advice I just gave you will make you tilt: by nature, you observe actors who play a part, hence who can 'facture' an emotion by perfecting their body language. This implies, in particular, that you should learn to express yourself by non-verbal communication, understanding beautifully what is emitted from your body. This is the next section of these chapters.
 


 
 
 













 
Master your non-verbal communication
 


 
 
 


 
After learning to decode the non-verbal language of the people around you, it is essential to take the next step in the process: successfully mastering your body communication. In other words, manage to get the messages you want unconsciously to the people you want. It almost sounds like science fiction when I say it like that, yet that's the reality. I'll take the example of film actors, that's exactly what they do: they use every millimeter of their body to transmit emotions in you when you look at them on the other side of the screen. It’s tough, but it’s not impossible to master, and either way, you probably don't need to win an Oscar.
 


 
Here are the steps to master your non-verbal communication.
 


 
 
 


 
Become aware of your body language
 


 
This includes being completely present. You must concentrate on your body, feel every bit of skin, from your toes to your head. If this sounds daunting to you, I suggest beginning with daily meditation practice. Ten minutes a day is enough to effectively regulate the storm of emotions, clear your mind, and be completely conscious of all our body's sensations.
 


 
Make it a routine, daily, to surprise and observe yourself. Where am I standing? What head do I make when this person talks to me? Where are my hands? What are my feet, my arms? What is my legs' position? Know what your body communicates to you. For example, in an awkward discussion, your legs can turn out to avoid confrontation. Or, if you are nervous, get your hands twisted or your toes frenzied. Observing and associating your body language with your feelings also helps you make your dictionary. And instead, identifying components of body language in others and associating them with their own emotions.
 


 
Concretely, from today, I recommend that you proceed as follows:
 




 
Pay attention to your emotions
 


 
As soon as you spot one, whatever it is, observe your body language and write it down in a notebook
 


 
Repeat the process to create your own personal 'dictionary' of your non-verbal communication.
 




 
Over time, you will have in mind a whole list of attitudes, behaviors, ' tells, 'which relate to your inner emotions. You will know, for example, that when you are angry, you will clench your jaw, and your nostrils will widen slightly. And it will be the same for all types of emotion that you can feel every day.
 


 
 
 


 
Correct your gestures permanently
 


 
Once you've gotten into the habit of observing yourself and paralleling your body language with your internal emotions, it's time to take the next step. It consists of correcting what you communicate to the unconscious of people. For this, we will use two things:
 




 
The custom dictionary of your body language, which you built up in the previous step, over time.
 


 
The emotions you want others to think you are feeling (are you following?).
 




 
Basically, to use the example from the previous step, if you want to make someone understand that you are angry with them, clench your jaw, swell your nostrils slightly, frown, and that's it, don't verbalize, the message should get through. You can even train with friends to see if your acting plays off.
 


 
Where it gets interesting is in certain situations, especially when you have to convince people. During a job interview, during a romantic date, all you have to do is adopt the posture and body language you want to get the message of your choice. For example, if you want to show someone that you are confident, based on your dictionary, you can occupy more space with your arms, stand straighter, look the person in the eye, etc. And all that, even if you are deep in fear.
 


 
All you have to do is transform yourself into a studio actor on demand to be able to use non-verbal communication to your advantage. And believe me, it is an extremely powerful tool that will take you far beyond anything you could have imagined. By mastering this art, you will:
 




 
Succeed in putting people in your pocket by systematically making a good first impression,
 


 
Anticipate the needs of those around you by detecting how they feel before they even verbalize it
 


 
Give off the charisma necessary to move forward in your life as you wish
 


 
Many other benefits you will discover as you go on this wonderful journey into the world of non-verbal communication.
 















 
Body Language: Keys to Improve Your Safety and Convince Others
 


 
 
 


 
Our body language is like a silent orchestra, which is not always conscious and yet has a direct impact on our environment and the people who shape it.
 


 
Mastering it, knowing it, and understanding its secrets will make it easier for us, for example, to improve our first impressions, make us more attractive, or better persuade others of certain things.
 


 
This is not about teaching strategies that marketers or even politicians use to the public.
 


 
We mean the ability to improve our security a little more, to have better control over our conversations, job interviews, and even, why not, our way of seduction.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Body language and its visual language
 


 
The brain conveys our intentions, and if we want something, our gaze is the first to seek that purpose, the first to reflect our intentions.
 


 
Therefore, our eyes are the first channel and the primary body language tool, so why not make the most of it?
 




 
Never look down during a call.
 


 
Look directly into a person's eyes as you approach her.
 


 
Remember that your emotions are reflected in your eyes, so try to convey peace, determination, and personal safety.
 




 
 
 


 
2. The right posture and privacy
 


 
When talking to the person in front of you, it is essential to take care of your position.
 


 
The back should remain straight, your shoulders rest, your neck straight and not tilted.
 




 
Posture is a reflection of your attitude, and to improve your safety and convince others in your words, you should not go to extremes, i.e., you do not need to take a military stance, nor be too careless or evasive.
 


 
The ideal is to combine naturalness with safety, and that is why it is also essential to take care of your personal space.
 


 
Stand at a safe distance where you do not "suppress" the other person, but where, for your part, there is a certain closeness in which the dialogue is natural and the appearance is even.
 




 
 
 


 
3. Always visible hands
 


 
If you are in a job interview, a special dinner, or a serious conversation with another person, never hide your hands. Do not put them in your pockets or under the table, or make the mistake of crossing your arms.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Peace and quiet at any time can be a good strategy
 


 
Let's continue with the metaphor that our body language is like an orchestra, like a group of musicians playing a score to excite the audience.
 




 
As we already know, music would not be the same if it were not for silence. Therefore, to have a direct impact on who is ahead of us, we must use them from time to time.
 


 
For example, when the other person expresses something you disagree with, instead of going into censorship or immediate reaction, use silence and a smile. Relax.
 




 
Sometimes silence is an expression of wisdom. Let's use it well.
 


 
 
 


 
5. Pick up an object as you speak
 


 
To create a direct impact on someone or even a group of people, it is always helpful to bring a pen or even a pair of glasses as we speak.
 


 
The presence of these objects or accessories with an "intellectual" connotation creates an image of safety for the audience.
 


 
Also, having something on our hands helps us to ease our anxiety a little.
 


 
 
 


 
6. I agree with the head
 


 
Shaking your head is an essential strategy in our body language. It is a way of connecting with the person before us, of confirming what he tells us, of openness and interest.
 


 
This does not necessarily mean that we agree with what he tells us; it is part of a ritual of respect and trust where we can create a favorable climate for agreement, giving a positive, respectful and intelligent image.
 


 
 
 


 
7. Don't pay. Find a place to feel comfortable
 


 
You don't have to be an actor to convince others of something. Do not fall into exaggerated gestures or this excessive discourse that you do not allow others to speak.
 


 
Body language training is the art of being ourselves, controlling these keys to create impact, but without falling into theatricality.
 


 
We need to work hard on our self-esteem, self-confidence, and even those nerve ticks or screams that we sometimes use to hide or make nervous or insecure.
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
NINE
 


 
How to Interpret the Verbal 
Communication?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Non-verbal communication with professional efficiency involves very specific know-how to interpret body language. In this segment, we will provide answers to recurring questions: How to understand the significance of the message transmitted by the body? How to decode non-verbal elements and use them to communicate better ...?
 


 
Non-verbal communication is the transmitting of messages or signals via a non-verbal medium such as eye contact, facial expressions, movements, attitude, and the distance between two persons.
 


 
Multiple channels characterize this form of communication, and researchers argue that non-verbal communication can convey more meaning than verbal communication. How to decipher these non-verbal elements? How to use them to communicate better?
 


 
An individual must judge and make his first impression a 10th of a second. Permanent non-verbal communication is the first impression.
 


 
How a person introduces himself at the first meeting is an observation that is not verbal.
 


 
"The first impressions are lasting. Positive and negative experiences can occur. How people view themselves will create positive experiences.
 


 
Clothing and other recognizable features can be included. Negative experiences can also be focused on personal expectations and representation.
 


 
First impressions, while always unreliable, will accurately represent others in many instances.
 


 
 
 


 
Non-verbal communication and political speaking
 


 
A number: 93% of our communication is non-verbal, words only represent 7%.
 


 
Mastering non-verbal communication is essential in the advent of an era of image and virality:
 




 
Detect and analyze your contact
 


 
Control and use your body language
 


 
Strengthen your image as a communicator, gain legitimacy.
 


 
Convince your interlocutor
 




 
Non-verbal communication is the oldest known form of expression. Psychologist Paul Ekman has identified seven major emotions that are considered universal because they can be expressed by everyone, only with facial expressions:
 




 
Sadness
 


 
Joy
 


 
Anger
 


 
Fear
 


 
Disgust
 


 
Surprise
 


 
Contempt
 




 
According to him: "the face is the first signal of emotion, the voice the second."
 


 
The milestone and founding event: the debate for the American presidential election between Nixon and Kennedy in 1960:
 




 
Nixon convinced radio listeners.
 


 
Viewers by Kennedy
 




 
The decisive influence of the image and body language: Kennedy wins thanks to his ease, his gestures, and his relaxation, while Nixon did not work on this aspect.
 


 
Following this debate, politicians began to work better on their non-verbal communication.
 


 
 
 


 
Decode body language
 


 
To communicate, we use much more than words: in our interactions with others, our body also has its language.
 


 
Our gestures, the way we sit, speak, and make eye contact are all non-verbal means of communication that influence the messages we transmit verbally.
 


 
Non-verbal communication: silences, gestures, postures, facial expressions, tone of voice, the rhythm of speech, clothes... complete the verbal message.
 


 
Sometimes it even expresses our emotions, feelings, values
 
without our knowledge.
 


 
Non-verbal language allows communication between people of different languages: laughter and the expression of pain is among the universal non-verbal expressions.
 




 
But their signals are not universal and must be interpreted according to the socio-cultural context.
 


 
Recruiters, for example, have understood this and scrutinize beyond words during their job interviews.
 




 
 
 













 
What is non-verbal communication?
 


 
 
 


 
Verbal messages are communicated through the words we use.
 


 
The verbal message is an important aspect of communication, but how we communicate non-verbally is just as important, if not more.
 


 
Non-verbal communication includes the following:
 




 
Tone of voice
 


 
Voice rate and volume
 


 
Word articulation
 


 
Rhythm, intonation, and emphasis on words
 


 
Facial expression
 


 
The intensity of eye contact established
 


 
Gesture and touch
 


 
Body language and position
 




 
While very uncommon, nonverbal phenomena are very common in human communication and are used elsewhere in many fields such as theatrical and dramatic arts, some cultures' sign languages (deaf, monks) ...
 


 
Non-verbal communication thus includes anything related to the body language that serves as an implicit vector of our emotions (decoding): postures, styles, movements, facial expressions, intonation, micro-facial expressions, physical contact, movement, etc.
 


 
These elements reflect our deep feelings, especially when we communicate with others and often serve others, disrepute a speech that, however, is well written and well prepared or even simply betrays us.
 


 
When we communicate with others, our words only account for around 5 percent of the information provided by our interlocutor.
 


 
Around 40 percent of his feelings about our interference is expressed by intonation. Therefore, our body language (decoding) transmits our message to the overwhelming majority. This shows the importance of learning, understanding, and, above all, mastering the elements of nonverbal!
 


 
For example, in public speech or negotiations, it is necessary to master these elements beautifully as nonverbal brings precious knowledge to those who can analyze it finely.
 


 
 
 


 
Decode the elements of the non-verbal
 


 
It is our very nature to judge others easily by their personality, appearance, understanding, and gestures. Take an example of what nonverbal communication is: communicating by special systems that involve different kinds of systems: sound, movements, facial expressions, postural, chemical, thermal, tactile, and electrical ones, among others.
 


 
There are several disciplines interested in nonverbal communication, including biology, neuroscience, sociology, and psychology. 
 


 
Posture, speech, tone of voice, body language, and look are harmless elements that say much more about our real intentions and emotions.
 


 
This type of communication reinforces and gives credibility to verbal communication when it is adapted, but can discredit it, conversely.
 


 
The American researcher Mehrabian says that 7 percent of the communication is oral, 38 percent is vocal, and 55 percent is verbal or vocal.
 


 
 
 













 
Rapid Cytological or Nonverbal Language Decryption
 


 
 
 


 
The voice
 


 
It's our word's first vector. We can say if they are nervous, relaxed, smiling, etc., without even seeing the person talking to us.
 


 
The voice elements are as follows (decode): The following.
 




 
Timbre:
 it's unique to each person and ranges from extremely serious to very acute.
 


 
Volume:
 level of sound to be adapted to the context and the audience, one or more persons, friendly or public speaking, etc. A speech that is hard to hear or that doesn't penetrate an entire audience represents a sense that the speaker is uncontrolled, nervous, or unsure.
 


 
Flow:
 that's the speed we're talking about. Pay particular attention to your speed if you have to speak openly because when speaking before an assembly, it is common to speak too quickly and thereby indicate some nervousness.
 


 
The sound:
 the tone of the voice brings words to life. It's the kind of melody we're talking to.
 




 
It is important to modulate your voice's tone to capture the attention of your / your interlocutors, for example, or to awaken a sleeping audience.
 


 
 
 


 
Physical appearance
 


 
If we are used to saying the habit does not make the monk-which is fundamentally real, it remains that our general physical appearance (decoding) and clothing conveys many messages about our personalities.
 


 
If you are in your outfit well, you will also look more relaxed and encourage more faith in others. Unconsciously, our brain analyses its overall appearance well before our interlocutor has even spoken a single word.
 


 
Many people stop at this first experience without wanting to know more.
 


 
The same applies to a job interview; you use your personality, other attributes, abilities more or less consciously, much like other more abstract aspects.
 


 
For example, because of the obligation, you may have a neglected appearance.
 


 
Often, dressed in the company you are applying for, like most people, gives you an advantage because you have the feeling that you belong to the same party.
 


 
It is the mirror that instantly and unconsciously induces sympathy and positivity.
 


 
So, you have to follow the profession's dress code and the ethos of the industry you are applying for during a job interview.
 


 
There is also a range of colors of our minds and personalities.
 


 
 
 


 
Posture and gestures
 


 
Your movements and your way of doing them indicate strongly how you feel within yourself and your real intentions. Your face-to-face, side-by-side determine your relationship to the latter, sitting, standing, etc.
 


 
 
 


 
Posture
 


 
Your general position (decode), heading structure, and position until an interlocutor sends unconscious messages: are you intimidating him?
 


 
Are you exuberant with love and compassion, or with animosity and aggression? If you sit in front of the speaker, do you lean to the left or even wedge the upper body instead of the bottom?? Will you cross your hands, right? Where are your hands, and what is it you are doing?
 


 
Without a word spoken, the attitude of our interlocutor lets us read different stuff.
 


 
Feet set straight back into the ground, hands relaxed, look non-fleeing ... All of these are elements with a particular charm, self-confidence, soundness, and strength.
 


 
On the contrary, a strong sense of timidity, anxiety, loss of self-esteem, nervousness, etc. Back facing forward, eyes blank, hands continuously tortured.
 


 
Arms or legs crossed indicate a shut-down disposition.
 


 
 
 


 
Gestures
 


 
You are in a state of rest, anxiety, warmth, hostility, hostility, threat, openness, closedness...
 


 
Your interlocutor interprets each of your actions unconsciously and can, for example, determine the result of negotiations or discredit somebody's intervention.
 


 
Running your hand through your hair (decode), rubbing your nose, mouth, or chin is a matter of lying and fear. Similar to jerky or fast motion.
 


 
Instead, large, controlled, and slow moves are signs of trust and comfort.
 


 
Among the major gestures, we can mention the handshake that has been more or less soft, supported more or less, the index accusing, indicators simply, permission nodding, etc.
 


 
 
 


 
The look
 


 
Is it not the mirror of the soul that we are saying? In addition to that formula, the gaze gives people who know how to decode a lot of details.
 


 
Eye contact is often necessary to answer a query. The latter's strength can make the person easy to turn to or, instead, annoy him or her, even destabilize or scare them.
 


 
The gaze can be there, assisted, set, unstable, fleeing, turning up or to the ground, straight, and can submit various information: dominance, coercion, flight, fear, irritation, boredom, rage, warmth, goodwill, etc.
 


 
Please take care not to be too pushy to look at your contact person(s) in your eyes that will make them uncomfortable.
 


 
 
 


 
Facial expressions and micro-expressions
 


 
Gestures and attitudes were the first means of human communication and represented a true paralanguage that accompanies and completes the verbal message.
 


 
The language of the body expresses in postures that may concern: the head, the neck, the pelvis, the legs, and the arms.
 


 
We express ourselves by movements, and we can be defensive or hostile.
 




 
The nod of the head back and forth which signifies approval,
 


 
The outstretched hand in a sign of peace,
 


 
The raised fist in a sign of revolt,
 


 
The Armor the finger of honor,
 


 
Etc.
 




 
An upward eyebrow, a mouth tip, a curling jaw, a folding forehead, tight lips ... Our muscles unwittingly shift certain facial expressions, and they are quickly identified (decoding).
 


 
But for most of us, others, who are more discreet but just like oblivious, transfer unknown, disclose useful data.
 


 
It is known as micronutrition. The latter are basic, extremely stubborn (less than half a second) and expressions of one of our seven emotions (joy, sorrow, fear, rage, taste, disappointment, contempt, underlined by Paul Ekman-American emotional psychology.
 


 
The former requires thorough expertise and training if it is easy to understand, to use them as benchmarks.
 


 
 
 


 
The dilation of the pupils, a slight blink of eyes, and a half-open mouth are evident to the uninformed eye and yet very talkative.
 


 
Among other things, the mentalists master this Art beautifully and always bluff the audience, which remains astonished in the face of so much force.
 


 
If we are active, arrested, then we have got gestures to barriers.
 


 
Among the most common:
 




 
hands-on ears, eyes or mouth,
 


 
arms crossed,
 


 
rubbing hands,
 


 
forms of readjustment: the lock of hair, the fold of a pantaloon, a skirt, imaginary dust, clearing of the throat…
 


 
We also communicate through conventional signs:
 


 
the finger pointed towards the door means “get out!”
 


 
the sign of the hand to say “goodbye.”
 


 
the nod of the head to say “yes.”
 


 
the clapping of hands (applause) to show our satisfaction in front of a demonstration.
 




 
Space and distance
 


 
Intimate:
 highly emotional range between 15 cm and 45 cm; this is the distance between, for instance, two members of the same family, whose emotionally strong links (physical contact, whispers, etc.). A person outside the area does not perceive the dialogue (s) (decodes). The distance from secrecy is often called.
 


 
Personal:
 it is referred to as the effective zone from 45 cm to 1.20 m. Emotionally, but enough to tick the effect, the bonds are less intense. This is the difference between two people who know each other well (friends), for example, for a specific discussion. The dialogues are audible but relatively silly. Distance from the trust is named.
 


 
Social:
 1.20 meters to 3.60 meters; this is the socialization zone with interactions between people that regularly know each other or rub each other (connections, colleagues, and so on). Without effort, the voice is heard and heard.
 


 
The distance between a person and a group of individuals (for example, lecturer facing his or her audience) is no physical contact or direct interaction. Public:
 


 
Each individual has their perception of these areas, which it is essential to respect; otherwise, the discussion will be overturned before it has even started.
 


 
You will have to change depending on your background, temperament, or even the essence of your touch. Don't pass an area's threshold unless invited!
 


 
 
 


 
Space
 


 
The space in which communication takes place also affects us.
 


 
The gestures are performed in space. This space is codified. We know the expression, "keep your distance."
 


 
Each of us marks our distance by talking to the other. There are four communication zones:
 




 
intimate zone (15 to 45 cm), tone of confidence,
 


 
personal zone (between 45 and 1.20 m), professional, even friendly relationships,
 


 
social zone (1.20 to 3, 50 m), marks the function of each,
 


 
public area (> 3.50 m), facing an audience.
 




 
Anyone who enters an area that is not reserved for him commits a fault, and the person who is the victim feels uncomfortable, destabilized, attacked.
 


 
We all have a personal territory that we protect from their external charisma.
 


 
This space and the objects in it can become an extension of our physical body. (Car, chair, desk, etc.)
 


 
The layout of a room, the layout of the tables affect our communication, which plays in favor of their persuasive force.
 


 
 
 


 
Power of body language
 


 
Listening and understanding one's interlocutor beyond their words is a huge asset in many situations. This allows, among other things, to:
 




 
Interact clearly and effectively with their interlocutors: particularly in sales interviews or a job interview.
 


 
More easily convince by taking the right position and appropriate gestures.
 


 
Redirect negotiations to a closed contact person by identifying signs of anger, interest, etc. and correct the shot.
 


 
More accurately identify the personality and signs of nerve or lying of a recruiting candidate.
 


 
Manage conflict decoding and detecting the unpublished more effectively.
 


 
Detect shift resistance until it is explicitly defined.
 




 
Facial expressions and body movements
 


 
These are the facial expressions in which emotions manifest: happiness, disappointment, disgust, sorrow, rage, fear ...
 


 
These phrases can enhance the message but can alter it and modify its context.
 


 
The clink says what is said should not be taken seriously,
 


 
Robust look means aggressive intent,
 


 
Both interlocutors are interested in the panoramic view so that everyone feels worried about the post.
 


 
Facial expressions, such as a smile, can be intended but are often uncontrolled and involuntary (wide-eyed in amazement, frowning in frustration, etc.). They form an important part of our overall behavior.
 


 
To prevent misunderstandings, it is important to take into account facial expressions and body movements.
 


 













 
CHAPTER TEN
 


 
What Is Neurolinguistic Programming?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
NLP is an excellent art and science. It is an art, since everyone gives what they are doing their own personal and stylish touch, and that can never be conveyed with words or techniques. It is a science, and for outstanding results, there is a system and process to discover the models that are used for outstanding in-dividing in a region. This method is called patterning. In the field of education, guidance, and industry, the models, skills, and techniques discovered can increasingly be used to achieve more efficient communication, have substantial personal growth, and accelerate learning.
 


 
Have you ever done something so elegantly and successfully that your time will be cut short? Have there been moments when you were very pleased with what you were doing and how you handled it? The NLP shows you how to appreciate your achievements and arrange them so you can experience several more moments like this. It is a way of uncovering and unveiling your talent, a way of bringing out the best of yourself and others.
 


 
The NLP is a real ability that produces the outcomes we want in the world while at the same time valuing others in the process. It is the p of what distinguishes between the excellent and the nor-evil. It also leaves behind a whole range of extremely successful strategies on schooling, therapy systems, business, and therapies.
 


 
 
 













 
The Origins Of NLP
 


 
 
 


 
The initial version of the NLP of today originated in the early 1970s. Richard Bandler, who was at the time a student at the Santa Cruz University of California, met with John Grinder, assistant professor of linguistics.
 


 
Grinder, who was especially interested in advanced teaching techniques, was rapidly aware of Bandler's research and held a series of seminars in collaboration with him.
 


 
Such seminars originally had the classification of group studies. But with growing Bandler and Grinder experience and expertise, the participants encountered more exciting processes of transition ever. This culminated in an increasingly close relationship between Bandler and Grinder over the years.
 


 
Together they explored the issue as to why certain well-known psychotherapists had so much success with their patients in their practice and on what basis this success was based. While several people treating the same patients with the same conditions have struggled to bring about these drastic improvements at the same time. The original theory of Bandler and Grinder was that they believed effective psychotherapists had a common or similar pattern of action in their work with people, based on which they might produce these excellent results.
 


 
These common or related behavior patterns are now known as NLP, or magic structure.
 


 
So, they started to investigate and evaluate the types of therapy used by the top therapists:
 




 
Virginia Satir, an exceptional family therapist
 


 
Fritz Perl’s, an innovative Gestalt therapist and founder of this direction of therapy, as well
 


 
Milton H. Erickson, a world-renowned hypnotherapist.
 




 
In doing so, the expectations of finding patterns and structures that could clarify the success of these top therapists in coping with their clients were always driven.
 


 
Despite the diversity of the three successful psychotherapists, after long and careful observation, Grinder and Bandler discovered that they used surprisingly similar basic patterns in their work with others.
 


 
Grinder and Bandler put these basic patterns into writing, refined them, tried them out in their seminars with other students who agreed to do so, and finally developed an elegant model that applied to achieve more effective communication, accelerated learning, personal change, and experiencing more enjoyment and joy in life.
 


 
They called it NLP - Neuro-linguistic Programming.
 




 
"Neuro"
 because these are strategies that heavily involve the functions of our nervous system (brain + spinal cord + senses). The point is to perceive more precisely and more, to purposefully change unwanted feelings and behavior patterns in harmony with yourself.
 


 
"Linguistics"
 because it is also very much about the linguistic aspect. We maintain external communication with other people as well as internal communication with our wonderful "bio-computer" - our brain. Unfortunately, not all of the inputs that we make in this biocomputer are received. Therefore, advanced communication methods are also required here.
 


 
"Programming"
 means that we want to use systematic methods in all of this and not learn through trial and error. It's about discovering procedures and processes that can also be transferred to other areas and people. Many NLP techniques are content-free, which means that the same method can be used for headaches, a phobia, or to build an irresistible motivation. NLP describes procedures and processes that can and are effective regardless of the content.
 




 
Based on this approach, NLP developed in two complementary directions:
 


 
In the first direction, as a process for discovering the pattern of brilliant achievements in every conceivable social area.
 


 
In the second direction, as a compilation of the effective ways of thinking and communicating used by outstanding personalities in this field.
 


 
 
 


 
Beginnings of NLP
 


 
In the spring of 1972, Bandler himself offered a Gestalt therapy seminar, inspired by his studies' lack of real significance. This was possible for students in an advanced semester. He focused mainly on studying the therapeutic effects of gestalt work in a group and improving his theoretical skills in practice.
 


 
During these seminars, John Grinder became aware of Bandler's research, joining him and his exploration. From then on, both worked together on Bandler's workshops, with John Grinder, a beginner to counseling and psychotherapy.
 


 
Between 1972 and 1974, intense and productive cooperation took place, with Grinder benefiting from Bandler's knowledge of psychotherapy and Bandler's knowledge of linguistics.
 


 
This combination was particularly useful in modeling Virginia Satir's therapeutic masterpieces, Friedrich Perl's, and hypnotherapist Milton Erickson. When modeling, a person's unique skills are made learnable and accessible through systematic and accurate observation and questioning. Patterns and principles were developed so that interested people could also emulate the skills.
 


 
Bandler and Grinder were not primarily concerned with explaining something real, but with discovering something useful for others. As proof of the success of their analyses and observations on Satir and Perl's, they saw evidence that in other people, they could achieve the same results as the person who modeled them.
 


 
In early 1974, both began designing the first meta-model structures with a group of students held in Mission Street squat, Santa Cruz. Simply put, and the meta-model is a set of very specific questions from which to uncover thinking processes and obtain deep knowledge. The starting point for research in the meta-model groups was the assumption that verbal communication between therapist and client is central to any therapeutic change work. Consequently, it was believed that common language patterns would crystallize and be cemented in Friedrich Perl’s and Virginia Satir's verbal communication, making the dysfunctional processes conscious and causing change.
 


 
With John Grinder's linguistic context knowledge, both researchers succeeded in creating starting points for a model that allowed the targeted collection of information about a person's imaginary world. They modeled Perl’s and Satir's critical linguistic skills and were able to explain these constructs clearly and thus move them on.
 


 
From late 1974, Bandler and Grinder regularly participated in teaching seminars given by hypnotherapist Milton H. Erickson. Again, with the primary objective of researching Erickson's work with people, discussing his language patterns and actions. The findings were refined as with Satir and Perl’s, reported in writing, tested for applicability in student groups, and integrated into the current knowledge base.
 


 
In 1974 and 1975, more formal communication models became the focus of group study. Since Perl’s' non-verbal actions often appeared to contribute greatly to the therapeutic impact achieved in addition to language behavior, the beneficial non-verbal elements were then specifically evaluated and attempted to address them. The resulting models were later used for both psychotherapy and daily contact.
 


 
Various types of procedures were used and revamped, leading, in addition to Perl’s and Satir methods, to the current NLP shape. Bandler and Grinder published their first discoveries in four books from 1975 to 1977. These were:
 




 
The Structure of Magic I and II
 


 
Patterns of the hypnotic techniques of Milton H. Erickson I and II.
 




 
In 1977, Grinder and Bandler held their first U.S. public seminars. The seminars were received very quickly. NLP's awareness has grown noticeably in the following years and is now used worldwide, especially in therapy, education, and management.
 


 
Bandler and Grinder developed reframing in 1982. It shows how one can contact unconscious parts, causing unwanted behaviors or disease symptoms. This enabled changes that were previously only conceivable under classical hypnosis.
 


 
1984 introduced the concept of submodalities, inventing one of NLP's most effective and impressive techniques. The submodalities represent a kind of brain programming language that everyone can use if they know the commands. People take information with their five senses, process it, and store it internally as events and thoughts represented in their senses, the so-called modalities. These modalities can, in turn, be specified more precisely, so it is possible to ask more precisely about an experience's inner picture. The special thing about this method is that it takes advantage of the fact that not only does the human brain react to WHAT we think, but also how a person thinks, e.g., more in color pictures or black and white pictures.
 


 
James developed Time Line Therapy (Zeitlinie) in 1988. This method is particularly suitable for gently healing past traumatic experiences. Using the timeline, unconscious or repressed traumas, causing physical or emotional problems can be found and mentally processed.
 


 
In 1990, Robert Dilts developed reimprinting, a process for changing our childhood's relational structures to limit beliefs and beliefs. An imprint is a decisive experience from which the person concerned has formed a belief or bundle of beliefs that are effective in his world. Such an imprint usually also includes an unconscious assumption of the role by other important people involved. The purpose of re-imprinting is to find the missing resources, change the belief, and adapt the role model developed there to the actual and acute circumstances of the person concerned.
 


 
Unlike popular belief, Grinder and Bandler did not create NLP alone. After thirty years of silence, a third colleague now goes public: Frank Pucelik.
 


 
 
 













 
Principles of NLP (Neurolinguistic Programming)
 


 
 
 


 
The NLP is a collection of techniques focused on recognizing and using thought patterns that affect the actions of an individual as a way of improving performance and solving problems. 
 


 
NLP's aims include, among other things, correcting mental perceptions, making them more efficient, and offering a set of effective strategies and skills for the best adaptation of those situations that arise daily.
 


 
After explaining the goals of Neurolinguistic Programming, here are the ten principles of NLP:
 


 
 
 


 
1. The inner map is unique
 


 
One of the principles of NLP refers to the orientation people have in the world around them. The way the person is oriented is about the interior of the map. In the early stages of life, the inner map is simple. However, as we grow older, the map becomes more complex, and new routes are opened. The more complete the map is, the more successful the person will be. The world map is individual, built through our own experiences. Every person has their map, and there are no two equal maps.
 


 
2. The best map is one that offers more than one road
 


 
As mentioned earlier, the complete map is also more accurate and will provide more opportunities to achieve a goal or solve the problem. This has to do with flexibility and the ability to react in a variety of ways to a vital event. The map is not the territory it represents, but if it is correct, it will have a territory-like structure and will be more useful.
 


 
3. Every behavior has a positive intention
 


 
This may be one of the most discussed principles of the NLP. This point refers to the fact that every person and every behavior has an inherently positive intention. For example, there may be some doubt that a smoker has a positive intention to smoke. But according to this principle, the smoker could smoke to relax or be socially accepted. The NLP seeks to redirect this positive intention to a more adaptive and individual-appropriate pattern of behavior.
 


 
4. The structure of experience
 


 
This principle shows how each experience is made up of a specific structure. Every Thought, Feeling, Memory, or Experience Consists of several elements. This means that if each experience has a structure, thanks to a change in its composition, its effect can change.
 


 
5. All problems have a solution
 


 
This principle refers to the fact that all problems have a solution. However, it seems to be utopian, as sometimes some solutions cannot be implemented. In other cases, there will be problems that do not have a clear solution. This has to do with the map the person has since then the fewer roads or alternatives you have, the fewer solutions you can give to this situation. Besides, the interpretation of the problem has to do with the content of the map. A richer map that offers more resources will perceive some situations as less problematic.
 


 
6. Everyone Has the Power They Need
 


 
This is one of the principles of the NLP that has to do with the personal development of the individual, as it states that each individual has the necessary strength to achieve what is proposed. The problem arises when one's restrictive beliefs influence self-confidence.
 


 
7. The body and mind are part of the same system
 


 
This principle refers to man is the body and the mind. In other words, every emotion and emotion affects the body. This is the other way around. For example, a disease that affects the body will have psychological consequences. Therefore, for the NLP, thought changes that modify physical problems are important. By the way, have you heard about inbuilt knowledge;
 


 
8. The concept of communication depends on the outcome
 


 
It is necessary to establish clear communication guidelines, which do not cause misunderstandings, nor an option for biased personal interpretations by the recipient of the message.
 


 
9. There are no failures but opportunities
 


 
When a person is constantly moving, they have different ways of reaching the goal. Failures should be seen as opportunities, that is, measures that allow you to overcome and move it in the desired direction.
 


 
10. If something doesn't work, try something else
 


 
Sometimes, people insist on doing something that doesn't work, but they also don't change the way they act. At this point, the famous phrase "don't expect different results if you always do the same" makes sense. NLP professionals aim to help identify and modify behaviors that are ineffective and cause you to stumble over and over again with the same stone.
 


 
 
 


 


 













 
CHAPTER 
ELEVEN
 


 
Is NLP Effective?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
With NLP, we can modify these states of low self-esteem, poor motivation, and problems in communication with people and with ourselves ...
 


 
These three aspects, Self-esteem, Motivation, and Communication, are considered pillars to achieve an improvement in personal and professional life, and many of the NLP Techniques revolve around these key aspects ... and are applied to achieve results of excellence.
 


 
Regarding emotions, NLP does not intend to rationalize emotions too much… it is proposed as a discipline capable of helping to gain greater awareness of them and greater self-control on the part of the person.
 


 
Thanks to NLP's varied resources, many negative beliefs are dissolving and disappearing, giving away too much better, more empowering, and motivating beliefs.
 


 
I can tell you that My friend has experienced many positive changes with the systematic application of Neurolinguistic Programming in aspects of her personal and work-life ... aspects that before she did not even encourage to change or even develop, such as giving group talks or giving courses, or setting goals for herself. More challenging in different areas of her daily reality!
 


 
With the study and practice of NLP, you can incorporate some concepts such as effectiveness ... it matters more to become effective in your actions, simply because it leads to BETTER results and measurable results ... that can always be improved.
 


 
In neuro-linguistic programming, then, "the truth" is not taken as a measure of judgment ... what is true for someone, for another person it is not, according to the beliefs of each one ... but rather if the strategy is effective: it works, or it does not work... and if it does not work you have to do something different, to obtain different results, of course considering that what is done... is ecological, that is, that it does not generate internal conflicts in the person, and that it goes according to their values, culture, personality, etc.
 


 
In short, for NLP, the effective result is more important than the intention ... I can have good intentions and observe someone to help him... but that someone can take my observation (according to how he interprets reality) as an offense!... with which I will not obtain the desired result (help you).
 


 
That is why we say that in NLP, what matters is effectiveness (in this case of the example, applied to Communication).
 


 
 
 













 
NLP and Belief in "Failing"
 


 
 
 


 
Beliefs are a very studied aspect of NLP. Today we refer to a particular belief that is analyzed in Neurolinguistic Programming's assumptions: the belief of "failure" or belief in failure.
 


 
Believing in failure is a way of "intoxicating" the mind. When we store negative emotions, we directly affect our physiology (postures, breathing, attitudes, etc.). The processes of our thought and our state are affected.
 


 
 
 


 
Failing is often related to failing
 


 
To teach the concept of "possibility thinking," Dr. Robert Schuller asks an important question that is sometimes asked in NLP and personal development courses:
 


 
 
 


 
 What would you try to do if you were sure not to fail?
 


 
Think about it. What would you answer to that? If you believed that you could not fail, you could initiate new actions and produce new, powerful, and desirable results!
 


 
From the NLP, there is talk of activating the virtuous circle, starting from believing in being able to achieve your Objective, putting into action the best internal resources, without thinking about failure, but rather in learning and correcting the course until you reach it.
 


 
We, like it or not, always produce a result, and if it is not what we wanted, the way to go is to modify the actions to obtain new and better results without being caught by the belief of failure... but rather by the desire to learn, correct, improve.
 


 
Therefore, I propose to cross out the word "failure" and incorporate the word "outcome," committing ourselves above all to learn from all experiences.
 


 
The leaders, the best in each specialty (people who have personal power), understand that if one tries something and the outcome is not what is expected, it is the feedback: one will use that information to adjust further their distinctions about what you need to do to produce the results you want.
 


 
Buckminster Fuller has written: “Everything that humans have learned, they learned exclusively as a result of trial and error experiences. Humans have always learned through their mistakes. "
 


 
Sometimes we learn from our mistakes, and sometimes from the mistakes of others.
 


 
 
 


 
Micro-Exercise
 


 
Take a minute to reflect on what you consider to be the five biggest "failures" in your life. What have you learned from those experiences?
 


 
They may very well be among the most valuable lessons you've ever received.
 


 
 
 


 
The Rudder Metaphor
 


 
There is a resource used in NLP, and it is the rudder metaphor. It tells us that when the rudder of a ship turns to one side or the other, the ship tends to continue turning beyond what the helmsman intended, who has to correct the deviation in a continuous process of action and reaction adjustments and course corrections.
 


 
Engrave this image in your mind, that of the helmsman. He governs his ship, which takes him to his destination, counteracting thousands of deviations from his theoretical course, no matter how calm the waters are. It is a very useful image to help us achieve those results that we so desire.
 


 
Often, this simple habit used when practicing NLP (imagine, summarize something through a simple mental image with clear content and a positive state of mind) can help us to "dismantle" the focus on failure and further propel ourselves towards the goal.
 


 
But unfortunately, most of us don't think this way. Each error, each deviation, generates an extra emotional charge that negatively affects our behaviors and the results obtained.
 


 
Why? Because they are assumed as "failures" and generate a bad image of us ... which we end up reinforcing and expressing in the form of limiting beliefs, generalizing everything: "I failed again," "I failed," "I cannot," "I am a loser," "The same thing always happens to me" ... etc.
 


 
Thus, an unwanted result that can be improved spreads like an oil stain inside the person... taking the form of "belief-failure," becoming conditioning increasingly...
 


 
So, I suggest that you firmly assume one thing right now: failure does not exist; there are only results that can be improved. Remember the image of the rudder and apply it to your life, to your goals.
 


 
This is a powerful concept of NLP that can undoubtedly guide you on your path to personal excellence!
 


 
 
 













 
Guide to Your Success
 


 
 
 


 
NLP is a model of excellence that can be a powerful and reliable guide to personal and professional success.
 


 
In NLP, getting results is key. Neurolinguistic programming encourages experimentation, action, real and concrete results, continuous learning, and improvement.
 


 
For example: Is there something you would like to do in a while but don't know how to start or how to do it?
 


 
If your answer is positive, NLP can be your reference, and it can specifically help you make that leap from idea to the fact.
 


 
The action makes dreams come true. Doing an NLP course, reading a good book, even doing some NLP therapy, or hiring a coach who applies neurolinguistics, and facilitates the realization of your dream, could make a big difference in your life, starting today!
 


 
NLP principles are also applied to achieve success in sports and business.
 


 
You will often find fitness trainers who use NLP anchoring techniques to help you achieve that state of self-confidence and self-confidence that is so necessary before a major competition.
 


 
By the way, NLP and its many resources can be your effective personal, professional guide, feel better, eliminate harmful thoughts and habits, tune into a state of trust before speaking in public, give an exam, have an interview, make a sale, resolve family conflicts, improve communication with yourself and with others, etc.
 


 
The truth is that NLP is a widely used tool today and in various fields.
 


 
And why is it widely used? Without a doubt, because it works, it is powerful, reliable, practical, and results quickly ...
 


 
It is about taking the first step and adopting neurolinguistic programming as a guide to success in your life.
 


 
It is true ... maybe if you have never practiced NLP, you may feel a little "strange" doing these things in the beginning. Now, when you learn to control and manage your internal states, your options will expand, which is worth it!
 


 
 
 













 
Explore and Design Your Goals With NLP!
 


 
 
 


 
NLP is a key tool for exploring, designing, achieving your goals, and is widely used in coaching. As a model of excellence, neurolinguistic programming has studied and decoded how successful people achieve their goals, and this is applied with great success in various fields.
 


 
The difference between dreams and goals is worth clarifying. It is extraordinary living a dream ... And it is better to realize it. NLP can help you shape it as a real goal and motorize it to get what you want.
 


 
I once read, "A goal is a legs dream ..." Undoubtedly, the goals are what moves us forward. They are the things we want.
 


 
And here comes another aspect very studied in NLP and closely related to the motivation goals. Indeed, why get out of bed every morning? Because without a doubt, we want something or do something.
 


 
It can be something extra, like breakfast, or something great like improving someone is life through meaningful work.
 


 
 
 


 
The goals are key in neurolinguistic programming and the coaching basis. And coaches are in demand as they become effective facilitators to achieve their goals.
 


 
Coaching NLP aspects helps clients express what they want, have good dreams, put legs on them, and run with them.
 


 
Whether we like it or not, we are always moving towards something. As we say in NLP, we move from present to the desired state. When we are not satisfied with what we have, we are heading for something better.
 


 
Making a difference in your life — as a goal in itself — is a concept widely used by the NLP's expert, Anthony Robbins.
 


 
What one person wants is what distinguishes him. Whether we achieve it or not, the fact that we want to make a difference, progress, excellence, even recognition is inherent in human life.
 


 
Some people have living advantages and still feel unsatisfied. Others live with great simplicity, yet feel comfortable.
 


 
Our goals are personal, unique, particular. The NLP highlights something useful: the opposite of setting goals is thinking about problems. That focuses on difficulties, what is wrong. Simultaneously, it focuses on the endless reasons why "you can't."
 


 
Importance in setting goals or goals shifts attention from "What is wrong?" to something more useful and productive: "What do I want?"
 


 
This moves us through time, consistently, and sustainably. NLP and coaching thus help a person explore the present and design the future to achieve their goals.
 


 
They accompany you from where you are today to where you want to be, giving you many more options and resources. And this implies two objectives:
 




 
The objective-result:
 it is your final destination, where you are going, the point you want to get to.
 


 
The objective-process:
 it is your trip itself, what are you going to do on that trip, how are you going to get to your destination. You plan to achieve a result-objective ... and include "breaking up" the final objective into a series of minor and intermediate objectives that will make up your trip.
 




 
 
 













 
NLP Exercise to Break the Rapport
 


 
1- Appearance and Physiology:
 


 
It may be the case that you want to physically move away from someone or avoid looking or using a gesture to communicate what you want to say.
 


 
Therefore, -as examples- the fact of raising the eyebrows, or turning their backs or crossing their arms as a sign of "closing," or sighing "with annoyance," are strong messages that indicate a "non-communication."
 


 
This may be a "double-edged sword" ... don't do it if you are interested in continuing the rapport!
 


 
2- The tone, volume, and rhythm of the voice:
 


 
This is another trick used in NLP ... you can change the pitch, volume, and rhythm or speed of the voice. Raise or lower it. Also, remember the power of silence.
 


 
An example. If you want to end a conversation on the phone, start saying, "well, well, I'm going to consider what you tell me ..."
 


 
And you turn up the volume of the voice, speaking faster ... this "suggests" a particular urgency and cuts the tune of the conversation, taking it to your ground.
 


 
3- The words you use:
 


 
The word "no," contrary to what is commonly thought, is a positive statement. Saying does not simply know how to set limits, and it is very good for self-esteem to be able to mark "our territory."
 


 
Sometimes saying "no, thank you very much" is very effective and offers an elegant and clear cut.
 


 
The handling of a "closing" language needs self-observation and practice ...
 


 
Observe yourself in different situations and activities. Generally, some people do not dare to say "no" due to modesty or fear.
 


 
Maybe they are always complacent with one or two people, even if they don't want to.
 


 
If this is your case, definitely: don't do it! Defend your right to choose freely and to set your limits.
 


 
4- In NLP, it is very useful also to have the "Sensory Evidence":
 


 
How do we know when we need to cut rapport and with that conversation?
 


 
By observing ourselves, we can draw very constructive conclusions to know that we do not want to continue talking!
 


 
There are sensory indicators:
 




 
We start to establish internal dialogues, and we say "ugh, enough is enough" =)
 


 
We begin to feel uncomfortable, annoying, angry, and begin to change body posture.
 


 
We begin to divert attention and naturally disconnect from the conversation ...
 


 
The conversation makes us tired physically and mentally.
 




 
And many more indicators. The important thing is that you can and have the power to choose freely.
 


 
Exercising that faculty of choosing who to be with, who to talk to, how long, where, etc ... is a symptom of healthy self-esteem.
 


 
Knowing how to establish rapport is as useful in life as knowing how to cut with it. To do this, these NLP tips can help you, especially if you want to cut with a conversation that generates an unwanted state.
 


 
Take into account –mainly- the above key aspects of this NLP exercise and apply it with respect and consideration…
 


 
Many times, the other person does not notice the signals that come from their interlocutor and that express the desire to end the communication in that particular moment and context.
 


 


 













 
CHAPTER 
TWELVE
 


 
The Pillars Of NLP
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Neurolinguistic programming is a tool that we talked about and focused on finding models of effective behavior. To do this, we sought to model the most influential people in different fields and check what they did to achieve what they achieved and what made them different.
 


 
Whether due to past experiences, environmental or cultural influences or for various reasons, we find ourselves in certain situations with reactions or behaviors that we do not like. We want to give a more effective response to that situation or avoid a specific reaction. Well, NLP is a tool that helps in those situations, in addition to looking for effective relationships between all of us.
 


 
1. Results
 


 
When we start a job, task, project, we propose OBJECTIVES, which is general and specific. The same happens with NLP: it has clear objectives, that is, it has results and what you want to obtain NLP applied to humans. As an example of them, it can be the improvement of interpersonal relationships, achieving entrepreneurial entrepreneurship, change of ideology, effective learning, among others, or they can be several objectives/results at the same time.
 


 
2. Effective Communication / Compenetrating
 


 
Communication is the activity of sharing a message between a sender and a receiver. We find oral communication, non-verbal communication, and written communication. We are talking about the five senses to obtain truthful and effective communication, hearing, taste, touch, sight, and smell.
 


 
When we talk about blending, we aim to achieve optimal transmission of ideas between two or more people, identify ourselves according to ideas and feelings, understand and understand our fellowmen reliably.
 


 
With NLP, we will learn to communicate and understand each other in such a way that continuous improvement of interpersonal relationships is achieved. We become successful people in achieving the stated objectives.
 


 
3. Sensory Acuity
 


 
The five senses set in motion with such skill that we can perceive what we have often failed to see, hear, touch, smell, or taste. Acquire the ability to perceive small details by becoming fully aware of what is present in our environment.
 


 
Through sensory acuity, we will obtain the ability to discern. We will understand a signal; we will distinguish visual, auditory, gustatory, tactile, and olfactory stimuli, we will be faced with continuous learning of new experiences through the senses whose purpose is to obtain emotional well-being, family, work, social, etc. For our triumph.
 


 
4. Flexible Behaviour
 


 
The experience of daily living leads us to develop certain habits or repetitive behaviors, which forms a profile of behavior. With NLP, we will learn to unlearn, identifying those behaviors that make us go back day by day in our success, replacing these behaviors for new behaviors, that is, integrating different habits that lead us to personal victory, that is, towards the fulfillment of objectives. For example, change my schedule of daily activities, train in the gym five days a week, read one book per month, week, or day…. And so, on we are integrating new activities proportionally to the change we need to adopt.
 


 
As we adopt a change of habits, we are developing the flexibility of behavior; this is not acquired overnight; it is a process that, according to each being, occurs over time. The important thing is to be willing to change.
 


 
 
 













 
How to Apply NLP in Your Life
 


 
 
 


 
This work methodology was created by the computer scientist and psychologist Richard Bandler and the linguist John Grinder, who combined communication, psychotherapy, and personal development to make a very effective communication model. Its initials stand for Neurolinguistic Programming.
 


 
The purpose of this model is to motivate change through action to achieve objectives and improve disorders of any kind, psychosomatic diseases, etc.
 


 
 
 


 
How?
 


 
Through exercises that help program your mind, through the repetition of certain actions that seek to integrate success patterns, behaviors, or strategies that help you achieve what you want.
 


 
Most mental processes happen unconsciously; that's why NLP techniques try to influence this part of the brain.
 


 
 
 


 
NLP techniques for self-improvement
 


 
Before you start the routine, it is recommended that you read it well and understand it to avoid distractions by reading the step by step, so you will be able to concentrate much better, which will be key to obtaining good results.
 


 
Now, we have compiled the most effective exercises to overcome yourself without obstacles that stop you on the way. We will start with:
 


 
 
 


 
Controlling your emotions
 


 
The purpose of this exercise is to change what you feel every time you remember something uncomfortable that happened in the past.
 


 
The first thing you should do is:
 


 
Remembering something that makes you feel bad or uncomfortable and has long disturbed you.
 


 
Create a space for this memory, that is, visualize it in front of you or to one side.
 


 
Once you see it, imagine it slowly moving towards you, and then return it to its original position. You have control over that image.
 


 
Imagine you have a giant slingshot, put that nasty image on the slingshot, tighten the fastener tightly, and let go of the image until it disappears.
 


 
Then think of something else and go back to the unpleasant thought. If you can still see it close, repeat the previous step and throw it away again.
 


 
The idea is that you repeat this until the memory does not affect you and that when you remember, you can see only a very distant point. Repeat as many times as necessary.
 


 
 
 


 
Anchor
 


 
Another effective NLP technique is anchoring, which helps overcome difficulties or achieve goals by imagining a situation that causes us anguish or anxiety. Ideally, we anchor a pleasant or positive moment to that situation, using association through visualization techniques.
 


 
You can remember a beautiful sunset or some melody that you like to reprogram that moment, weaken the negative and make it a much more positive and encouraging reality.
 


 
You just have to associate that moment with something good and visualize it. Every time that destructive or distressing thought comes to your mind, think about what you want it to become until, by repetition, your mind will associate that situation with something relaxing and stop disturbing you.
 


 
 
 


 
Snap
 


 
The first thing is to think of something where you are not so good or not feel motivated. Every time you exercise, for example, things may come to your mind, such as the unpleasant feeling of tiredness or the discomfort of sweating, which is martyrdom, and you don't feel like doing it.
 


 
This exercise is great for getting you motivated to do those activities that you don't feel motivated towards.
 


 
Start by forming in your mind an image of how you would like to live that activity. In the case of exercise, imagine the energy that doing this activity brings you, or visualize how people will admire you for the effort made and how good you will look after doing it.
 


 
In this way, your mind will associate the activity with something much more motivating, and you will feel like doing the activity.
 


 
 
 


 
The expanding point
 


 
This exercise is that every time you feel happy, pause, and look for something negative, visualize it and place a small point in the center or one of its corners. That point should be the representation of that happy moment.
 


 
Once you have visualized it, click and imagine that the small dot expands to replace the negative situation completely.
 


 
Pause briefly and repeat the procedure until you can easily make the change by clicking.
 


 
Neurolinguistic programming and hypnotherapy, a reinforcement plan
 


 
NLP techniques, or Neurolinguistic Programming, are tools that help improve in different aspects, it is based on making a change abroad, but first, there has to be an internal change. This is where hypnotherapy comes into play.
 


 
With hypnotherapy, changes are made from the inside, working the unconscious so that the results can be reflected outside. Nothing will change if we don't start from the root of the problem. That root is in our unconscious because there is information that determines our behavior.
 


 
Thanks to hypnotherapy, it is possible to communicate with the unconscious and reprogram the brain through induced positive thoughts, which will help improve behaviors and change patterns that are hindering the search for happiness.
 


 
By practicing NLP techniques and hypnotherapy sessions, you will be ensuring a positive change in your life. You just have to be constant with the exercises, treatments, and therapies to see results quickly.
 


 
The goal is to have the opportunity to follow new paths to load up on positive things and benefit us.
 


 
Among the benefits that you will get when joining these two tools, we can mention you:
 




 
Relieve stress
 


 
Discover the origin of phobias and eliminate them
 


 
Get rid of bad habits
 


 
Adopt new beneficial routines for the well-being
 


 
Facing trauma
 




 
In good time, these two tools have come together to improve your life. Now it only remains to start a new stage where you will begin to see how wonderful life can be when you set out to improve.
 


 
 
 


 
How to Use Them in Your Professional
 


 
The techniques of linguistic programming, far from a scientific context, have succeeded in business and psychological environment many advances in improving the individual.
 


 
NLP techniques are widely used in business coaching processes because the neurolinguistic programming enhances personal empowerment at work and life.
 


 
 
 


 
What are NLP techniques for?
 


 
Through its implementation, you can achieve a considerable improvement to communicate with third parties, since it optimizes your security and your way of presenting yourself to others.
 


 
By investigating your way of thinking and acting, get you to analyze everything that happens inside you so that you can discard what is self-destructive or harmful.
 


 
One of the keys that it offers to the individual is the observation of third parties, to attract himself to behaviors that he feels enriching and beneficial for his person.
 


 
This, in turn, in social relationships, can make your interlocutor feel more comfortable, due to the connection that takes place as a mirror. This includes the naturalness with which you must combine their movements with yours, to harmonize the relationship.
 


 
For all of the above, the usefulness of NLP techniques in the HR departments is optimal. You convey trust, but you become an influencer from whom appropriate behavior must be copied.
 


 
 
 


 
Seek excellence
 


 
The first NLP technique you can practice is to model the exemplary behaviors of those you admire. In other words, enhance your excellence by internalizing those behaviors that inspire you in the first person.
 


 
 
 


 
Positive visualization
 


 
Another simple NLP exercise is to practice your dispositive lift. For example, if you are going to do a job interview, visualize yourself developing the test successfully. How does this exercise help you? It allows you to gain self-confidence and optimism by recreating yourself in pleasant sensations.
 


 
 
 


 
Raise the mood
 


 
Also, take care of your body posture since your physical position directly influences your mood. For example, if you are nervous for any reason, sit in your office with your back straight and breathe deeply. This will help you generate a new state of mind.
 


 
Also, it generates anchors. For example, personalize your computer screen with a photograph of a natural landscape that inspires the value of calm and serenity. Anchors are small lucky charms that you create in your life.
 


 
 
 


 
Rapport at the job interview
 


 
From communication in a job interview or with a business partner, you can practice rapport. That is, you can match the body language of your interlocutor. However, you must naturally be their mirror; otherwise, if this process is artificial, it will not give good results.
 


 
Regardless of your specialty, NLP is a vital supplement at work and in your personal life.
 


 
 
 













 
Manipulating the Mind Through NLP
 


 
 
 


 
Those who deal with NLP are quickly confronted with the accusation of manipulation. Critics accuse NLP of being selfish, manipulative, and unethical because it puts personal interests first.
 


 
From a value-neutral point of view, every action and communication are on "manipulation." That is the reason to do something or say: to get in touch with someone and make something at the other. Rather, the question arises as to whose cost something is being done. Whoever deceives his counterpart acts at his expense. If benefits, advantages for the communication partner are not taken into account, any act on is negatively manipulative. On the other hand, NLP wants to create so-called innovations: conscious influence, helpful actions in the sense of successful communication for mutual benefit.
 


 
 
 


 
The 15 basic assumptions in the NLP
 


 
The so-called basic assumptions describe basic and useful theories of how excellent communication can work.
 


 
 
 


 
1. People are unique and experience the world in different ways
 


 
People are different; each is unique in itself. However, people tend to see themselves as a yardstick, starting from their world.
 


 
Example of biased action
 


 
Mr. Meier, a tech-loving salesman, thinks his customers want to be advised as he appreciates. However, he has difficulty attracting customers whose emotions play a role through his advice.
 


 
Accepting the uniqueness of the other means recognizing his value, respecting him and his individuality. It is important not to allow diversity, to appreciate it, and not to rate "be different" as "better" or "worse." It also means that each person takes up his environment differently and chooses from the many stimuli according to his criteria. The result is individual images, priorities, and conclusions that can stand respectfully side by side.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Mind, body, and environment form a system that influences each other
 


 
The mental attitude of the person influences his psychic and physical well-being; his behavior affects his thinking. If you change a part in this system, the whole system changes like a mobile.
 


 
Example of the interaction
 


 
A person who begins to deal intensively with environmental protection perceives different things in his environment than before. For example, it is noted for structural measures on rivers. His thoughts and emotions are then reflected in his dissatisfaction with his facial expression and attitude (influence on the body). He is involved in a corresponding citizen movement (influence on the environment) in the future.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Any behavior is communication
 


 
Each behavior contains messages to the other person, whether it's visible movements, things, postures, or "non-retention," such as silence. A person's actions are the only visible, audible, and tangible reference to the neurological processing processes that take place internally. A person's abilities and values are not directly perceptible, but can only be seen and experienced through his specific hands. Everything else is conjecture, evaluation, and interpretation.
 


 
 
 


 
4. The importance of communication arises from the reaction it provokes
 


 
This is a crucial question, namely: who is the cause of good, successful, or bad communication – the sender of a message or the one who receives a message? "You misunderstood this" and "I expressed myself inaccurately" reflect the two opposing poles as statements. If, for example, the communication occurs adverse reactions, there is little to blame the recipient. On the contrary, the sender must supersecret statements and formulations in such a way that the addressee understands them in his or her sense.
 


 
The receiver, not the transmitter, is important. It is not about the latter's intention, not about what he wants to say, but about what arrives at the interlocutor, what he can and wants to understand. The Sen. must take responsibility for his communication.
 


 
 
 


 
5. People orientate themselves on spiritual maps
 


 
A map is never the actual landscape, just as the menu is not the food, or the score is not the music. It is an image of reality, a model of reality. The map shows the user where they are, which areas are where, and how far they are, for example, to the destination. This applies not only to road maps but also to find their way around the world in general.
 


 
In spiritual maps and models, the sensory pressures are stored. They are not the real world, but they make it possible to find their way around them. Everyone has different spiritual maps that are no better or worse than those of others. For example, people have so-called perception preferences, i.e., they use their sensory organs and evaluate the stimuli differently. These differences are often the reason for conflicts and misunderstandings. The first step towards understanding and successful communication is to get to know and understand the map of the area. Different maps appear in the language: words are used differently or linked to other content.
 


 
The usefulness of spiritual maps depends on the purpose for which they are used. People consciously or unconsciously align their actions according to their maps. They can't change reality, but their mental image: scales, ratings, the use of different maps for different goals – if the user manages to vary here, the use of the maps increases. The potential of the maps lies in the unused, individual choices.
 


 
Example of changes in spiritual landscapes
 


 
Mr. Keller is overweight. Even as a child, his parents comforted him with sweets. Whenever he comes under pressure, he reaches for chocolate – his mental map shows this way out of stressful situations. If he manages to change his map to show other ways, he can save himself many calories.
 


 
 
 


 
6. It is better to have choices than to have none
 


 
Whether it's a choice from a wide range of goods or between different options for reaction, it's good to have the choice. NLP methods are intended to create new margins and alternatives. However, there is only one real choice with at least three different options:
 




 
If there is only one way available, this means a compulsion, a must.
 


 
Two possibilities are better than a compulsion, but a dilemma arises: the decision for something or against, an either
 


 
Only from three or more alternatives, there is a real choice, a free choice.
 




 
Example of choice
 


 
Mr. Keller creates alternatives for action: In addition to chocolate, he now also relies on relaxation exercises or exercise in stressful situations. He can make a new decision on a case-by-case basis.
 


 
 
 


 
7. People make the best choice from what is currently available to them
 


 
Every person has a life path. He has learned what he can do and how to do it in the best possible way. What is of the greatest benefit comes to the application. If a person considers the benefits insufficient or encounters problems, he must develop new, better, and more suitable alternatives for action.
 


 
 
 


 
8. Any behavior makes sense
 


 
This means that people always function properly in their world and map. Perhaps the meaning does not always open up to a viewer, but it is present from the parted.
 


 
 
 


 
9. Each behavior is based on a positive intention
 


 
This NLP often on skepticism. How can behavior be positive that has negative effects on other people, such as if an employee deliberately fails to inform her colleague? This basic assumption separates a person's behavior from their intent. In other words, against the background of the individual map of the actionable, the behavior is correct and beneficial. The benefits, often unheard of that are behind unproductive behavior, are called secondary gains.
 


 
Example of a secondary win
 


 
A student who disturbs the lessons wants to annoy the unpopular teacher, but it seems particularly "cool" in front of his schoolmates and is recognized by them.
 


 
It is important to recognize the positive intention and the secondary gain behind a behavior. This opens up possibilities for achieving them in a simpler, more positive way. This is the approach to bring about change from negative or destructive behavior and unproductive relationships.
 


 
 
 


 
10. Any behavior is useful in a specific context
 


 
Behaviour is learned and applied in a particular situation. Then it is appropriate and helpful. However, these behaviors are often transferred to other associations, places, and times when they are no longer appropriate and lead to negative consequences. The aim is to carry out the appropriate, appropriate action in every context.
 


 
Example of dependency on context
 


 
An attack can be useful in some situations, such as when there is a danger to life and limb. In other cases, it may constitute a criminal offense.
 


 
 
 


 
11. People have all the resources they need for change
 


 
Everyone has a variety of skills and resources that they don't make full use of. At the heart of this very positive assumption is that people can learn, grow, and make full use of their potential.
 


 
Example of resources
 


 
Beate is a good student. Only in the subject German, there are difficulties because the spelling does not fit. Beate prefers the perceptual channel "ear" when learning. She speaks the sentences in mind, is guided by the sound, and writes some words as she hears them. A spelling training starts with her in the development of the other, less frequently used sensory organs. She learns to imagine images and shapes, to use movements, swing exercises for word training.
 


 
 
 


 
12. All that man can learn is
 


 
NLP assumes that everything that a person has ever learned and mastered excellently can be learned. Excellent behavior can be looked at, recreated, so to speak, by others. Motivation, dynamism, decision-making, creativity, self-confidence, and other skills can be learned. The first steps in the NLP are based on this basic assumption. It is a question of learning from a model and going through the same neurological processes in the course of the learning process, using the same spiritual maps as the model. He succeeds, and excellencies have a structure – and this is learnable in cash.
 


 
 
 


 
13. There is no failure, only feedback
 


 
An error is a feedback, and it names the deviation from the desired target. When people seize it as an opportunity, the perspective changes; from this point of view, mistakes are the basis for solutions. For they define the degree of further improvements, show the way to the goal.
 


 
 
 


 
Checklist: How errors become chances:
 




 
Questions you should ask yourself
 


 
What has been achieved so far?
 


 
What can I learn from this?
 


 
What works well?
 


 
What else is there to do?
 


 
What can I do instead of the previous solution?
 


 
What room for maneuver is there?
 


 
What are the alternatives on the way to the goal?
 


 
What is the current state of affairs?
 




 
 
 


 
14. If what you do doesn't work, do something else
 


 
Of course, this basic assumption only applies if someone has choices. Many people continue to apply and even reinforce their previous behavior in the case of problems; for example, they become even louder in a conversation when there are difficulties in understanding. In most cases, such a procedure does little. Flexibility, i.e., doing something completely different, often brings the solution. The personal opportunity for development lies in creating those extra margins.
 


 
This view leads from the principle of guilt: not the other is to blame for my situation. I don't expect my environment to change to make a difference. I take responsibility for myself and change my behavior.
 


 
Example of alternative steps
 


 
The behavior of an employee is a headache for the head of the department, Thomas Hoch. Instructions, which he has formulated, do not comply with this power. Hoch often thinks, "I've already explained this to her a hundred times" – but a hundred times the same, and so he always achieves the same results. The solution to the problem lies in changing one's behavior. For example, he can transfer someone else's guidance, change procedures, or send your colleague to appropriate training.
 


 
 
 


 
The flexible handling of alternative actions also applies to the NLP basic assumptions themselves: If an assumption no longer helps in the present situation, it makes sense to assume something else more useful. NLP assumptions are not the truth but must be verified through personal experiences and one's senses.
 


 
 
 


 
15. The most flexible element in a system controls the system
 


 
Being flexible means having a wide range of choices. The person with the greatest flexibility to submit new proposals is most likely to put an end to a deadlocked, debilitating state. The more alternatives to action someone has at their disposal, the more likely they are to obtain the communicative partner's desired reaction.
 


 
Example of solution proposal through flexibility
 


 
In a meeting, a discussion has become stuck, none of the participants is willing to give in. A person from the round seizes the opportunity to propose new ways of thinking, methods, or changes. This can be a short, creative pause, changing the seating positions, attracting a moderator, etc. This colleague proves to be the most flexible element of the group and, through his proposals, makes it possible to unravel the situation. In this way, it has a significant influence on the system.
 


 
 
 


 
How our perception works according to the NLP
 


 
There are many theories about how a man thinks. NLP assumes that he uses the senses inwardly, i.e., when we think or remember, we see images, hear sounds, smell, and taste, and feel touches. This means that all mental processes can be experienced and designed with sensual elements. The precondition is that content is absorbed through the senses, processed, and thus become so-called representation systems: the representation in the brain of what we have realized about the senses forms the basis of thought.
 


 
 
 













 
NLP Communication - NLP and Communication
 


 
 
 


 
The human mind has always been a territory of mystery, which not even neuroscience, with all its advances, has been able to know fully. The subjectivity of each person, their belief system, customs, habits, etc., are contents that are stored directly in mind. These are such complex processes that we cannot decipher them individually. Do you want to know how to begin to understand the mystery of the mind?
 


 
The answer is closer than you think: it is language and communication that lead to the territory of the mind. It is no accident that philosophers, such as Martin Heidegger, have said that "language is the house of being." The research that has given greater practicality in this regard is communicative action through Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP), created by the psychotherapist and computer scientist, Richard Bandler and linguist John Grinder in the mid-70s.
 


 
NLP communication is one of the most effective tools for restructuring the subjectivity of people at all levels. On the one hand, neurolinguistics, which records brain activity from language, and on the other, communication, in all its forms (verbal and nonverbal), makes it a very useful instrument. That is why NLP and communication are necessarily linked. While it is about programming, it provides you with formal structures for changing your belief systems. In this sense, if you find yourself stuck in your work or a romantic relationship, communication with NLP helps you to redirect the attitudes you face with your life, and thus achieve the success you have always longed for.
 


 
It is from the NLP that it works and effectively activates the communicative action as a learning method for the development of human capabilities. In other words, NLP communication brings you closer and closer, not only to understanding but to programming your mind for the successful development of your skills.
 


 
 
 


 
What is NLP communication?
 


 
Neurolinguistic Programming is a method that allows you to access the mental content of the human being. NLP offers you learning models, for the optimization of belief systems. She is born in the first instance as a therapeutic method. However, currently, its scope is much broader: companies, institutions, and coaching, in general, are increasingly interested in this method.
 


 
Believe it or not, success is just around the corner; you will see that your communication and speech with neurolinguistic programming, and all aspects of your life, will change course towards healing, tranquillity, and the best use of your mind. Remember that your brain acts by repetition that is, by what is most familiar to you. 
 


 
Therefore, in any situation, your mind chooses the same route. In contrast, neurolinguistic programs are learning techniques that improve your ability to respond to particular situations. If you are still not convinced, we guarantee you with NLP effective communication, programming of your mental schemes, the improvement of your speech, confidence, performance, self-esteem, proactivity, etc.
 


 
NLP causes you to change your belief system. By changing beliefs with NLP, you convince yourself of your success and discard the negative considerations of yourself. This is established by the co-creator of NLP communication, Richard Bandler, when he says that “The key to success is beliefs. I modeled many successful people” (Interview with Richard Bandler. Coaching Portal. 2006. This is how communication with NLP can model your mind to achieve success in any area of
 
your life.
 


 
 
 


 
NLP communication laws
 


 
The NLP and communication model are a pragmatic theory that bets on modeling behaviors to provide you with an improvement in your quality of life. The laws or parameters of NLP communication can be reduced in three main features:
 


 
It is impossible not to communicate. The most important NLP tool in interpersonal communication, which is responsible for establishing the link between successful behaviors and your own subjective experiences.
 


 
Your body speaks, move it! When you practice NLP communication, you must be attentive and anticipate any reaction of nonverbal language, that is, of body language. Addressing these nonverbal expressions of language is keys to get better programming of your thinking.
 


 
If what you have been doing so far does not give you the well-being you need, it is time to do new things. In NLP communication, it influences more than you think to change the attitude with which you interact. You must do daily exercises, such as talk highlighting the positive; react bodily in a kind manner; Believe that success is possible in each personal or professional project you undertake.
 


 
 
 


 
NLP communication channels
 


 
In this technological era, there are several channels in which communication and NLP can be transmitted to any type of people, like you and me. Likewise, the scope of this method is quite wide, and the easiest way to access its teachings is through the internet, through certain web portals. However, as modeling your mind is a process that requires patience and experienced teachers, we recommend you visit reliable websites, such as the Teleseminar NLP High School.
 


 
The NLP Higher School was born in Mexico, thanks to Dr. Edmundo Velasco (Physician by profession and specialist in Gestalt psychotherapy), who worked directly with the co-founder of NLP communication, John Grinder. The vision of this School is to incorporate more and more people who are willing to work their emotional and productive life through lessons of NLP and effective communication.
 


 
This School of programming is one of the most prestigious in the entire Spanish-speaking region; its roots are rooted in the foundational principles of NLP communication. It offers a wide range of courses, from the face-to-face classes taught by Dr. Velasco himself, to the online workshops, where after participating in the transformation of your life aimed at success (if you are one of those who are emerging as leaders), you can obtain a certificate as a Facilitator of change processes with NLP, and thus master the communication with NLP and become a positive influence for everyone around you.
 


 
 
 


 
Types of communication in NLP
 


 
People are beings of language. Therefore, your own need to express yourself and communicate is basic. Neuro-linguistic communication and programming discovered the fact that the integration between language as spoken or written word and language not spoken, but expressed through our body, through gestures, expressions, postures, etc., is the basis for the creation or modification of mental structures and belief systems. Hence, NLP uses the use of verbal, nonverbal, and visual language as resources to make effective the mental change of people.
 


 
 
 


 
NLP verbal communication
 


 
It is, by definition, the type of communication that occurs through spoken language. Neurolinguistics tell us precisely that with this type of communication, we can receive the whole world of symbols and meanings from the outside and finally translate them, in the letter, into spoken word. Now, when you access hand communication with NLP, you sharpen your neural receptors to use your verbal communication more effectively and consistently, as appropriate.
 


 
 
 


 
NLP nonverbal communication
 


 
When within the NLP method, you hear that there is non-verbal communication neurolinguistic programming; it is not eccentric or difficult to reach resource. On the contrary, nonverbal communication is the immense universe of an unsaid language, that is, the body language and symbolic systems in which it operates, namely:
 




 
Chrononemia: time management
 


 
The pimping: a spatial arrangement between bodies
 


 
Diacritics: the symbols behind the spatial arrangement of objects and colors
 


 
The paralinguistic: tones of the voice
 


 
Kinésica: gestures, postures, movements, and reactions of the body
 




 
 
 


 
NLP visual communication
 


 
Although verbal and nonverbal communication keys to the proper management of NLP communication as a method of self-improvement, it is worth highlighting the visual as the most popular form of communication in our day, especially with the arrival of new technological devices and the Massive use of social networks. It is true that the impact generated by a person, information, or event comes first through sight. That is why NLP appropriates this resource, intending to channel the way you appear in front of others, generating the best possible impression.
 


 
These types of communication with NLP form a set of applications that you can put into practice daily and help you gauge your personality to get the performance and success you need in your life.
 


 
 
 













 
Body language:
 


 
what we communicate and how we do it
 


 
 
 


 
Knowing body language is fundamental and can save us in different situations.
 


 
Let's find out why
 


 
 
 


 
Difference between informing and communicating
 


 
We inform you when we pass information that you don't need or care about what's next.
 


 
I inform you, and this is enough for me.
 


 
I want you to take this information and make the use that you think is right for you.
 


 
 
 


 
Communicating is another thing
 


 
We communicate because we want something back, even if it is just an answer.
 


 
We communicate because we have a goal to reach, whatever it is.
 


 
Every communication has a value; even when we don't talk, we communicate.
 


 
Small things, looks, postures, micro facial expressions give information.
 


 
That non-verbal of which the communication is composed, for the most part, because the messages of the body are the ones that communicate the most.
 


 
How many times did someone happen to tell you something, and despite his words, they were extra-convincing, the tone of his voice the most appropriate, yet a little voice inside told you that there was something that didn't convince you?
 


 
 
 


 
Read body language
 


 
Our ability to read body language and its signals allows us to get a clearer idea of
 
what people want to say.
 


 
People who answer you yes and move their heads saying no.
 


 
Who says he is very happy to see you and slowly pulls his body back?
 


 
Who tells how much he got bored at that party and quickly licks his lips?
 


 
How much our body speaks is interesting to have at least a summary idea of
 
what meaning those unconscious gestures have that people make while they talk to us.
 


 
We can divide body language messages into three macro-categories:
 




 
messages of satisfaction
 


 
waste messages
 


 
tension discharges
 




 
 
 


 
Messages of satisfaction in body language
 


 
These are the subliminal messages that the body of our interlocutor sends without consciously realizing it. They express appreciation for what we are saying or what we are doing at that time.
 


 
Here are what they are:
 




 
So yes with your head
 


 
Linguine
 


 
Analog kiss
 


 
Caressing (hair, body)
 


 
Approaches with the body
 


 
Arms and legs not crossed
 


 
Smile
 




 
 
 


 
Messages of rejection in body language
 


 
If the approval messages indicate that what is happening between us pleases our interlocutor, the rejection messages indicate the contrary.
 


 
Here are what they are:
 




 
Shake your head
 


 
Cross legs and arms
 


 
Removal of the body
 


 
Put yourself sideways
 




 
 
 


 
Discharges of tension in body language
 


 
These body massages are telling us that what we are saying or doing is generating a degree of tension in our interlocutor, an accumulation of energy that needs to be unloaded.
 


 
Here are what they are:
 




 
Sighs
 


 
itching
 


 
Patter of fingers
 


 
Eat your nails
 


 
Nervously move the legs
 


 
To blush
 


 
Swallow / Scrape with throat
 




 
They must be contextualized: it is not that if a person crosses his legs, it means that he is communicating to us that he does not like what we are saying.
 


 
Maybe but certainly not.
 


 
If more messages of the same type are present, then the message that arrives is the right one.
 


 
Have fun watching which of these few body language messages are used by people who will interact with you tomorrow!













 
CHAPTER 
THIRTEEN
 


 
The Art of Persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Within advertising, politics, and in general, any other area of
 
daily life, persuasion is a skill that we must develop.
 


 
Many speak of it and recognize it as a weapon, probably if it is, but a weapon is within everyone's reach, and that is why I recognize persuasion as an art.
 


 
But why is persuasion an art that we should all develop?
 


 
I will give you an example that cannot fail
 


 
The famous and scary job interviews... We all have to face them at some time in our lives.
 


 
 
 


 
Have you ever thought about why you didn't get to keep the position?
 


 
The first option may be that your profile was not what they were looking for. Your knowledge and skills were not necessary; in that case, you cannot do anything, but when the job description and you seem to be the same person, everything indicates that You will stay with him and when he is not, what went wrong?
 


 
Perhaps your speech was not good enough to persuade the interviewer and make him see that you are the piece that the company lacks. 
 


 
 
 


 
Now you have seen how persuading is something that we all must learn?
 


 
But to continue talking about the subject, it is necessary that we first define what persuasion is, since it is also a concept that has different opinions and perceptions.
 


 
Aristotle is considered the father of Rhetoric, and he was the first to speak of persuasion. Rhetoric is nothing more and nothing less than the technique and art of speaking; remember that in Greek society, oral trials and speeches predominated, which were perfected thanks to it.
 


 
So, persuasion is supported by good intentions, must be trustworthy and transparent, and promote a positive benefit or impact; it does not manipulate as it is almost always thought.
 


 
It should be noted that in most cases, by not generalizing, the result is impacted by our beliefs and culture; however, persuasion can seek a good for both parties and not only for one, as our selfishness generally does. Seem.
 


 
Aristotle spoke to us about the existence of 3 pillars on which persuasion is based:
 


 
 
 


 
Pillars of persuasion
 




 
Ethos:
 These arguments are of an affective and moral order and can be seen in the sender of the message. They appeal to the authority and credibility of who issues the speech, here the relationship with their audience is defined. 
 


 
Pathos:
 The pathos arguments are effective and are more related to the receiver of the message. We can remember that what changes people and causes a change in actions are emotions and not facts. 
 


 
Logos:
 Here, more reference is made to discourse itself. The arguments must be solid, appealing to the reason and intelligence of the audience. This is where the balance is found between emotional and analytical discourse.  
 




 
In this way and leaving aside all these theoretical parts, let's talk about how persuasive influences advertising.
 


 
For this, we can approach persuasion from different angles and perspectives, such as consumer behavior, social influence, and design.
 


 
Surely when you think about advertising, the first thing that comes to your mind is manipulation and subliminal messages, but let me tell you that not everything works like this. Within the consumer, there are already certain patterns and beliefs that make them act in some way, persuasion the only thing that does is take advantage of these areas and accentuate the obvious.
 


 
 
 


 
What are the needs of consumers?
 


 
These personalities change from time to time, even change daily, but we go a little further to social influence. 
 


 
When people belong to a group, new needs arise. Think about what were the needs that were created when you entered your current job?
 


 
For example, when people are promoted, they may no longer be able to get there by public transport, so they need to buy a car; maybe you also had to buy new clothes. 
 


 
All these needs arise from a sense of belonging.
 


 
So here, persuasion has pretty much won everything.
 


 
The need is already created, and arriving at the store means that you must buy something; you only have to choose one option.
 


 
This is what we call consumer behavior; another example of this could be when you need to buy a new cell phone.
 


 
 
 


 
How is the purchase decision made?
 


 
Let us take the example of an apple. Within its range of products, it has three types of phones: cheap, medium, and expensive.
 


 
When you get to the store, the seller shows you the first option, and you think, "it is very expensive."
 


 
And then the second option is the cheapest ...
 


 
But when you know its price comes to mind, "it is cheaper, surely it has some error."
 


 
Finally, the third option is the most expensive, and you know that you definitely cannot buy it, so you end up buying the first option, which was the medium.
 


 
This purchase is closely linked to the beliefs we have as a society, and we always think that if it is cheap, then it is not so good.
 


 
Here is part of what you take advantage of when creating a sales strategy, but that does not mean that "brands want to sell you the most expensive."
 


 
Regarding the persuasive design, the information must be presented clearly and pleasantly, without being so pretentious. Also, depending on what you want to show, different technical and visual resources must be used, all to make the user feel comfortable, and you can have a good memory of the experience you had. This is where we put into practice the pillars of Aristotle, and you must manage emotions, arguments, and give confidence to the public you are addressing. The goal is achieved when you generate a memory in the consumer's mind. 
 


 
Remember that persuasion is not only used by speakers or politicians in their speeches; this is a skill that we all must develop to achieve things and the common good.
 


 
 
 


 
Do you remember Emma Watson's speech at the UN?
 


 
It is persuasive! And she advocates not only for an objective or benefit for her but for that of the world.
 


 
For work, a raise, at school, with your partner and with your family... persuasion is everywhere, put it into practice!
 


 
If you start creating persuasive designs, your brand will surely be more successful in terms of positioning in the minds of consumers.
 


 
 
 













 
The History of Persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
Do you know that they have in common a speech by Barack Obama, an announcement by Chanel, a gamification campaign for the VW Polo, and a press release by Repsol? The answer is found in work written more than 2,300 years ago! Its title is The Rhetoric and the author, Aristotle. This treaty establishes the foundations of corporate, advertising, political, institutional, emotional, and journalistic communication.
 


 
Through this section, I will try to discover how the theoretical precepts and the methodology exposed in The Rhetoric are applied daily and in a multidisciplinary way in the areas of professional communication. The conceptual basis of the work revolves around the command of the word and discourse -discursiveness- as instruments to exercise persuasive communication. 
 


 
Along with these elements are the arguments or reasoning that will be presented to the public to convince them by appealing to their feelings and emotions. Likewise, Aristotle determines and analyses the protagonists of this process: sender, receiver, message, and channel or medium. The issue you must project an image of credibility, authority, and moderation that facilitates the acceptance of your messages by the interlocutor. 
 


 
As for the recipient, it will be essential to know their approximate age and social status. In this way, the contents will be adapted to the particularities of the audience. E l message is characterized by a simple style but elaborate, but not convey the feeling of artificiality. The vocabulary will be clear and intelligible for all audiences. And the use of 'linguistic' resources that attract the attention of the interlocutor will be pertinent.
 


 
 Aristotle defines the structure of the messages in preamble, proposition, and epilogue. The preamble will capture the attention of the public to present the topic that will be addressed later. In the proposition, all the argumentative and narrative force of the exhibition will be overturned. The epilogue will contain a synopsis to summarize and consolidate the transmitted message. The message will appeal to the rational and emotional component that predisposes the interlocutor in a sense desired by the sender. Finally, it specifies that the message and its structures will always be adapted to the channel or medium through which it is transmitted.
 


 
As a result, this section constitutes a look at the past that takes us back to the original concepts of communication. This appeal is relevant in the prevailing digital environment in which we are located. In fact, at present, we use the infinite number of technological supports and channels that are within our reach. Thus, we are present in traditional social networks (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, YouTube, etc.) and other emerging ones (Periscope, Meerkat). And we are up to date with private messaging systems like Telegram and innovative applications like Snapchat. 
 


 
Of course, we know the trends in the creation of branded content (branded content, storytelling, scroll telling, etc.) And we try to approach the public through personalized, gamified, gamified, and quality themes, thus developing the cross-cutting nature of the information. But, simultaneously, we must not forget that the means -technological support- is not the end, but must be a tool in the exercise of our profession. And we must remember that assertion of the classical thinkers: 'the oldest is the most modern.' Past and present shake hands, since the final objective - to guide, influence the interlocutor's will using persuasive stimuli and appealing to his emotions - continues to be the same twenty-three centuries later. 
 


 
 
 













 
Persuasion 101
 


 
 
 


 
The Latin word persuasĭo came to our language as persuasion, the procedure, and the result of persuading. That Latin word, in turn, derives from a cultism, the verb "persuade," which is made up of two elements: the prefix "per-," which means "completely," and the verb "suadere," which is synonymous to "advise."
 


 
This action (persuade) consists of convincing a person of something, using different motives, or appealing to different techniques.
 


 
 
 


 
For example: "First we are going to bet on persuasion: if we do not succeed, we will use force," "It does not serve to impose things with violence, it is essential to achieve persuasion," "Hours and hours of the talk were necessary for the persuasion of my parents, but finally I got permission, and I will be able to travel. "
 


 
Persuasion is accomplished through influence. The intention is that a subject modifies his way of thinking or his behaviors, for which it is necessary to influence him through his feelings or by supplying him with certain information that, until now, he did not know.
 


 
Persuasion can be said to be the opposite of coercion or imposition. While persuasion is accomplished by suggesting things, coercion and imposition are accomplished by force. This means that a person, when persuaded, will act as the other intends but on his own, without fear of a violent or repressive reaction.
 


 
Several factors contribute to persuasion. The usual thing is usually to appeal to the commitment of the people, convincing them that what is proposed to them is the right thing. The position of the person trying to persuade another is also relevant. If the individual in question is an authority or is popular, his views are likely to have more persuasive power than the views of others. That is why many political parties bet on bringing celebrities as candidates in election processes.
 


 
To persuade someone, it must be taken into account that there are various methods, the most significant of which are the following:
 


 
-Emotional.
 Within this group, techniques such as seduction, pity, faith, tradition are used...
 


 
-Rational.
 In this case, recourse is made to proof, rhetoric, the establishment of arguments or logic, among others.
 


 
-Polemics
, such as torture, mind control, and even brainwashing.
 


 
Nor can we overlook the existence of a well-known novel that chooses to be titled with the term in question. We are referring to Jane Austen's "Persuasion" (1816) (1775 - 1817), known for other works such as "Pride and Prejudice" (1813) or "Sense and Sensibility" (1811).
 


 
Specifically, "Persuasion" is the last book the English author wrote. It takes as protagonist Anne, a woman who suffered, due to social norms, a hard blow to love when she had to reject the man she was in love with, simply because she did not come from a wealthy family. That circumstance has meant that she has watched the years go by on her own. However, everything changes when he meets that man again, who is now a highly recognized and also enriched captain.
 


 
 
 













 
Discover When You Are the Target
 


 
 
 


 
Are you the puppet of others? Learn the three steps to cut the threads that bind you to those who try to handle you...
 


 
 
 


 
I don't understand how it happens, but every time I meet my sister, I lose. When Lidia wants me to do something for her, she always succeeds! Again, I don't know how it happens, but does the situation unfold in a way that leaves me no choice but to do what she wants?
 


 
This is Francis' complaint, Lidia, his older sister, is a teacher in the art of manipulation. And Frank is not alone; Your sister's name can be substituted for a son, a husband, a mother-in-law, a colleague, or even a best friend. And is that there are people who, to get away with it, handle others as if they were puppets.
 


 
The manipulators, those skilled "puppeteers," know how to handle the strings of those who fall into their orbit to achieve their goals. Some do it consciously because their plan is coldly calculated; others act like this because it is the only way they know to get away with it. But everyone, without exception, can continue to work that way because they have a great partner. Guess who? The person who lets himself be manipulated. In many cases, she is not a victim, but a volunteer in that frustrating game. In other words: manipulation happens and persists because the manipulated allows it to happen.
 


 
 
 


 
Review your case. Perhaps you give in out of grief, out of a sense of obligation, because you fear offending that person or keeping the peace. Many times you feel that the circumstances have conspired in a way that leaves you no choice but, once again, to dance to the music you are playing (the most typical case is the vendor who warns you to act now! because the "wonderful" offer ends in five minutes). You end up feeling frustrated, irritated, exhausted, and full of resentment. The truth is that your relationships with these "puppeteers" are not the best. Also, how much time, money, resources, and peace of mind have you lost in the hands of the manipulators!
 


 
But is there a light at the end of this tunnel? The good news is that while you are responsible for what happens, in the same way, you can take control of your life and cut the threads that tie you to the manipulator. Here are three steps to achieve it.
 




 
Recognize the Game 
 




 
Some victims of manipulation feel uncomfortable after dealing with one of these specimens but cannot identify exactly why. As Francis says, "I don't know how, but my sister always gets me to do what she wants."
 


 
That is why the first step to cut the threads that tie you to the manipulator is to recognize what your game is. In other words: discover what weapons he uses to wield you. Do you employ the penalty? "I have not had as good luck in life as you." Maybe it controls you with guilt feelings. "If you don't help me, my children, your nephews! Will go bankrupt." Or he presents you with the fait accompli, believing that "it is better to ask for forgiveness than to ask permission." Example: "I took the liberty of taking this from your home." You must know their strategies so that you are prepared and not taken by surprise. «I discovered that my sister's tactic is to use the penalty. Does she play the unhappy, plagued by bad luck? And I always fall, "admits Francis. Once you recognize this person's modus operandi, take the next step.
 


 
2. Discover Your «Buttons» 
 


 
The manipulators have an effective secret: they use the appropriate tactics for each person because they know which one works with each individual. With one is the feeling of guilt, while with another, it is a pain; with some, it is vanity (the manipulator pretends to be incompetent to be rescued, making the rescuer feel important - without realizing that he has been used) or even fear of divorce, dismissal, abandonment or ruin.
 


 
What is your Achilles heel? Discover the «buttons» that you have, and that press you to operate as if you were a robot. When you determine that you always fall out of grief, vanity, or because you don't know how to act when you are presented with a fait accompli, stop. Discuss why you have that particular "button" and what your fear is if you don't budge. Are they realistic? Or are you allowing yourself to be influenced by the "puppeteer"? Is it fair with yourself that you feel influenced by the “puppeteer? And that you think like this? How does it affect you or harm you? And what effect does it have on your relationship with that person? Do you want to keep the threads that bind you to the «puppeteer»? If you want to cut them and be free, continue to the next step.
 


 
3. Modify Your Behaviour
 


 
Now that you know what tactics these people use to manipulate you and you recognize why you fall into the trap, you should modify your behavior.
 


 
 
 


 
-
Recognizes tampering
 


 
-Don't be rushed.
 Take all the time, and you need to assess the situation and determine how you want to respond. 
 


 
-Mentally prepare yourself for everything you will feel in those moments:
 grief, fear, guilt, and anxiety. Let those feelings flood you? And pass, like a wave that envelops you and then drifts away. Remember: the "puppeteer" uses them precisely because they are effective. Accept the possibility that some people will stray from you or that some relationships will radically change. But if you are clear that none related to being based on manipulation is positive, you will be at peace with that possibility. 
 


 
-Expresses your preference or your position with kindness, but with total firmness.
 If the person insists, be consistent, since it is you who will teach others how they can be with you, simply by the treatment you allow. Be prepared to repeat the same thing a thousand times, and for the "puppeteer" to find other tactics to handle you. Again: be consistent. The moment you stop accepting manipulation, the person will understand that their tactics do not work for you - and you will be free.
 


 
 
 


 
When You Should Seek Help
 


 
Sometimes the situation reaches levels that you cannot handle using the same tactics as if they work in normal situations. If you are dealing with an unstable person, physically abusing you, threatening suicide, or committing "crazy," take that situation very seriously and seek help urgently. Both you and others affected must be safe from a dangerous situation.
 


 
 
 













 
How to increase our capacity for persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
As John Ruskin said, "He who has the truth in his heart must never fear that his tongue lacks the power of persuasion. " Probably this is the best option. However, psychology has studied other theories that can be very useful in certain specific situations.
 


 
Before continuing, know that by persuasion, we mean the ability to seduce, convince, impress, or fascinate a person.
 


 
 
 


 
Some psychological theories to improve persuasion
 


 
The term "persuasion" may have had some negative connotations in recent years. We live in a world of global uncertainty and strong consumerism, and we are continually bombarded with advertisements that appear to be convincing, whose motives are not necessarily as straightforward or simple as they should be, but far from belonging to worthy causes.
 


 
It is therefore important to make the difference between persuasion and manipulation, and the latter lies in honesty, which exists in persuasion but not in manipulation; from a persuasive perspective, the other knows, since this is how it was presented to him, that we are trying to convince him of something. In contrast, from a manipulative perspective, this information tends to be concealed, hidden.
 


 
Persuasion is understood as the ability to influence another person honestly, which gives a great advantage to the people who developed it. This is why it is important to know some theories that are valid over time.
 


 
 
 


 
The amplification hypothesis
 


 
A firm mentality, conveyed with confidence, is very immune to convincing. However, it softens if it is expressed with uncertainty. In this case, arguments based on an emotional basis are very resistant to logic, and vice versa.
 


 
So, by carrying this hypothesis promulgated by Clarkson, Tbormala, and Rucker to practice, your possibilities of influence will increase if the attitudes that you project have the same meaning as those of the interlocutor. This is precisely what gives a name to the theory: if you want to persuade someone on a sport-related subject and you both support the same sports team, for example, the power of your arguments will then be amplified.
 


 
 
 


 
The manipulation theory
 


 
This theory handles four maxims to seduce a person, ensuring that the information is as complete as possible, ensuring the authenticity of this information, its relevance to the subject matter, and presenting it in such a way that it can be fully understood by the 'other.
 


 
This hypothesis, which might sound very poor, is very rational and fair. As Ruskin said, if you have the facts on your hand, you don't have to think about not being convincing. However, it is necessary to be well prepared and to have great knowledge of the subject, as well as to know how to explain them, to convince someone.
 


 
However, it is difficult to defend yourself against such a strategy, especially if your interlocutor is skillful with words. It is necessary to observe his nonverbal language, which reflects contradictions between the assurance of his speech and what his gestures say. Having a little idea of
 
the subject, I can point out what the most fragile part of his argument is.
 


 
 
 


 
The priming theory
 


 
This psychological method of persuasion is commonly used in the advertisement. It is focused on the networks of interaction that we need to create in our minds. Indeed, when memory is activated, a concept or a feeling, in turn, allows the activation, for a limited time, of everything associated with this memory. For example, if you are told about the breakfasts of your childhood, it will be much easier afterward to make you buy milk.
 


 
The priming must be very subtle; thus, the person being stimulated is not aware of how he is influenced, even if he knows that he is in an influence brand since it is a publicity question. In another case, we would speak of manipulation.
 


 
 
 


 
The standard of reciprocity
 


 
This is a widely accepted social norm. It's as simple as giving something and waiting to be returned. It is not a voluntary act, but established and accepted by all.
 


 
Carrying out this standard can be as simple as saying thank you. Faced with the offer you make to him, you wait for your interlocutor to send you this courtesy, and reciprocity must be proportional to the type of service rendered.
 


 
 
 


 
The principle of scarcity
 


 
In a way, all human beings need to control their world. Having free will over what surrounds us is important. This is why when something is scarce, the desire to have it increases.
 


 
This psychological technique is also widely used in the advertising world; think of the famous slogans. So, if you consider yourself a victim of this practice, ask yourself if you need the rare good, feeling, or emotion that is offered to you.
 


 
All of these psychological theories of persuasion go beyond the mere theoretical field. They have been put into practice and demonstrated to be functional. You have likely used them at some point in your life without even being aware of them.
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
 


 
The Secrets To Read People
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Perceiving other people's feelings and thoughts is an important skill that helps you navigate interpersonal relationships. Every human being is different, but we are all wired the same way at the core level. Here, we start by recognizing subtle clues for a moment.
 


 
 
 


 
Establish baseline
 


 
I know people.
 To be able to read someone really, you need to know them well. Knowing someone personally makes you more about what their likes and dislikes are, what their common habits are, and what is not necessarily "spoken" or otherwise I know a lot.
 




 
Based on one person's opinion as well as some encounters with others.
 


 
For example, you might have a friend who is generally very uncle. If so, their fear may not be a sign of lies or tension. When you meet them on the street, common sense makes them nervous or anxious. Disagreeable. They have exciting feet.
 


 
Pay attention to the habits of others. Do they always maintain eye contact? Does your voice change when you are nervous? How do they send it when they are crazy? This will lead you to what you are looking for when trying to read them.
 




 
 
 


 
Ask open-ended questions.
 When you are reading someone, you are watching and listening. What you are not doing is to grab the conversation at the corner and guide it in your direction. So, ask your question and get out of there. Sit down, relax, and enjoy the show.
 




 
Open-ended questions allow them to speak more so that they can talk longer.
 


 
It is best to ask for appropriate and appropriate questions. Saying, "How are your family?" May give you a messy, messy response that doesn't help you to better evaluate the information you are looking for. You may be able to collect more personal information than "What book are you currently reading?"
 




 
Look for baseline conflicts.
 Something is happening to an ordinarily loving person who doesn't seem physically present and doesn't want to get close to someone with a 10-foot stick. The same behavior Boo Radley shows do not necessarily mean the same thing. If you collect how people behave in daily life, be aware of things that do not engage.
 




 
If something seems to be missing, you need to ask why, at least initially. They may be exhausted, fight against significant others, get angry by their boss, or have a small personal problem stuck in c. Do not assume that it reflects your relationship with that person before you know all the details.
 




 
Work with the cluster.
 Looking at a single queue is not a reason to jump to a conclusion. After all, someone may be leaning on you just because the chair is not comfortable.
 




 
Try to get clues from their words, tone, body, and face. If you get one from each and have a line-up of all of them, it's safe to continue. But of course, a good way to check if you are right is just to ask directly.
 




 
 
 


 
Please know your weaknesses.
 As a mere human being, you are mistaken like the Pope. If you see something pretty, you will like it. If you are wearing a finely tailored Italian suit, you will probably trust it. Are you? Necessarily.
 


 
Humans generally think of dangerous people who are drunk, walking around the street, and carrying knives. In reality, most psychopaths are attractive and act together. Note that it is virtually impossible actually to control. Still, if it is not necessarily the best or most accurate thing, the subconscious tells you to judge the book on the cover.













 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
 


 
Strategies to Increase Self-Esteem Through NLP
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
When we only see our weak points. When we are not able to see the good things we do. When we don't value each other, all this indicates that we lack self-esteem, and NLP can help us reverse this dynamic.
 


 
 
 


 
Self-esteem, self-confidence, and NLP
 


 
Self-esteem part of respect for the person with their strengths, weaknesses, and abilities. It is a feeling related to personal worth, that is, having a purpose and giving it the importance it deserves. On the other hand, self-confidence, which is closely linked to self-esteem, consists of satisfaction with our life and the perception of being happy. Some people complain about the lack of self-confidence, self-esteem, feeling of worth, and security. 
 


 
From NLP, it is proposed that these feelings are the result of a bad combination of the different parts of the personality that we saw in previous subjects. The critical part is very valuable, but its fundamental task is to disassemble everything that has been built, imagined, or thought.
 


 
The NLP considers that each person has the forces they need. All the resources available to a person are made up of the sum of the elements that underlie the experiences and perceptions. 
 


 
Thus, some people think they do not have enough patience, but who can say that they never have, at any time, and for any second, disposed of such a resource? Each person carries the resources with them; what happens is that they do not perceive them. 
 


 
Almost everyone has ever experienced how, in an extreme situation or under great pressure, he has had unknown strengths and abilities. What is now is to make the most of personal resources without waiting for these borderline situations to appear.
 


 
 
 


 
The role of beliefs in self-esteem
 


 
Beliefs are generalizations about causes, meanings, and limits related to the environment, specific behaviors, abilities, and identity. Together with values, they are the most important sources that make up our way of being. Beliefs do not necessarily have to be based on a logical framework. Many stand out for their lack of logic, despite which we continue trying to adjust them to our reality by rejecting any other contrary idea.
 


 
Limiting beliefs prevent the development of self-confidence. Thinking “I am a failure,” “I am not important,” “I lack the strength to act like this,” are some examples of phrases that people constantly formulate and in which they end up believing. Self-esteem is on the opposite side, and it allows us to be sure that we have the necessary internal resources to overcome the difficulties and use them. In labor matters, it is normal to have overwork. However, it is not normal that as a result of the accumulated beliefs the person feels guilty of not answering, he would like to the continuous demands of his boss, his clients, or his environment in general.
 


 
 
 


 
Reverse limiting beliefs
 


 
To change limiting beliefs, a series of steps are proposed:
 


 
•
        
The first step in changing limiting beliefs is to detect them. Once identified, the formulation that causes negative feelings is sought. Let's observe how we react; what feelings do you wake up?
 


 
•
        
The second step is to locate a state that has sufficient resources and anchor them. To do this, let's look into our lives for a situation in which we have truly felt good. Imagine that situation as intensely as we can, and as soon as we notice that positive feelings grow, let us anchor this state of memories.
 


 
•
        
Next, as a third step, we relive that situation while trying to change the way we state our limiting beliefs.
 


 
 
 


 
Build trust
 


 
To have little self-confidence is to have an image of oneself in which something important is missing: trust. Each person has an image that he interprets as a reference for his assessment, formed from a combination of images, sounds, movements, feelings. Therefore, what it is about is to obtain a positive image of oneself to increase self-confidence. To do this, the following steps are proposed:
 


 
•
        
View the current image of oneself in an associated way. Build an image of one regarding how it is perceived. We must pay attention to the perception of the body, the posture, the comments in which we describe ourselves.
 


 
•
        
Display the image in a dissociated way. In this step, we distance ourselves from that image, we leave it, and we observe ourselves as an outsider: How do we see each other? What differences do we observe with the image of the first step?
 


 
•
        
The third step is to visualize a “copy” of the dissociated own image and positively modify those aspects that are less pleasant. Then we try to make our image even more pleasant, experimenting until we find nothing that makes the image more pleasant.
 


 
•
        
The fourth step is to incorporate the modified copy of our dissociated image into the associated image, that is, to make the image we have created ours, the one that defines us.
 


 
 
 













 
Methods for rescuing self-esteem recommended by psychologists
 


 
 
 


 
Do you feel overwhelmed with self-esteem down there and don't know what to do to get more satisfaction in your personal and professional life? Would you like to have a healthier and more harmonious marital relationship, develop professionally, and be less anxious about over-responsibility?
 


 
Breathe in and breathe! All these yearnings are the result of a lack of self-confidence and emotional and emotional needs. The good news is that they can be soothed and balanced with psychological techniques and methods for restoring self-esteem.
 


 
1. be more constructive and think positive
 


 
The method of cognitive and behavioral restructuring is critical for rescuing and understanding the limiting and negative beliefs learned in childhood through family education, school, or other social spaces.
 


 
Through this method, you will learn to think more positively and act more constructively. This will make it easier for you to move away from negative people and calm your mind. Automatically, you will feel more confident and secure.
 


 
In a time of distress or more intense emotion, seek to arouse positive thinking. This way, you can change the way you interpret your experiences in a different way of dealing with different circumstances.
 


 
2. Valuing yourself to rescue self-esteem
 


 
Accepting all the flaws and imperfections and vibrating with the little achievements of everyday life is very important. Whether in relationships at work or in other areas of your life, have fewer expectations of others' attitudes and judgments. These are some of the ways that can help you regain your self-esteem.
 


 
Inferiority complexes and lack of family references can affect your self-confidence, but these frameworks can be reversed through understanding your boundaries and self-affirmation exercises.
 


 
So, push away ideas that insist on tormenting you about someone else's judgment on you and keep in mind your strengths and achievements. Try to be good, above all, within your conceptions, not in others.
 


 
3. Avoid Making Comparisons
 


 
One of the most difficult aspects of comparative behavior is understanding the negative impact it has on us. The first step is to understand why these comparisons, when you started comparing yourself, and how this attitude affects you.
 


 
Breaking through these thinking patterns is sure to be a big differentiator in gaining a sense of who you are and how different you might be from others.
 


 
Constantly review its essentiality and seek to know its flaws and qualities, seeking to learn that each human being has its characteristics.
 


 
4. Learn to deal with life's frustrations
 


 
Life's “no's” closed doors, and limitations are very frustrating situations. However, each person reacts differently to the same situations and experiences. It is, therefore, very important to be open to behavioral changes to overcome frustrations.
 


 
Face the frustrations and hardships of your life as challenges and try to learn from every situation you experience so that at the end of a difficult process, you will come out strong and mature.
 


 
Invest in a change of habits and conceptions to achieve the expected transformation. Combining this with best practices will make your self-esteem recovery process faster and lighter. Also, consider assisting a psychologist in collaborating with your mental stimuli.
 


 
5. Spend more time with the people you like
 


 
The feeling of “belonging” means that we need to feel like part of a place or group of people and, at the same time, consider that they are part of us as well. He is one of the pillars of self-esteem that makes you feel good and satisfied just by being around people you care about.
 


 
Try to find an opportunity during the day to be with your family. The welcome it provides is refreshing and aids in growing self-confidence, and is considered essential for success in life.
 


 
Set aside time each month or week, depending on your availability, to meet friends and socialize with them. It is even interesting to try to include that class of friends from the time of adolescence because keeping in touch with them reminds you of your old dreams, beliefs, and ambitions, which are important activators of self-esteem and favor self-knowledge.
 


 
6. Be convinced of your goals
 


 
Every accomplishment begins with the goals we set in our mind. When we reflect on how much we can achieve our goals, self-esteem drives us to think more and better. So, use all your mental resources to visualize what you crave.
 


 
For example, if you want a promotion or have more freedom to express your ideas - it can be in the workplace, personal or family - stimulate your self-confidence and demonstrate your skills more effectively.
 


 
Set goals with which you can check your progress. Determine concrete criteria to measure the growth in the achievement of each goal you set, as this provides more security during your planning.
 


 
7. Talk to a Psychology Professional
 


 
Consulting with a psychology professional is one of the best solutions for restoring self-esteem. Do not let the situation get worse! Seeking help from a psychologist can reduce your suffering or even eliminate it once and for all in your life.
 


 
It is also necessary for you to make a personal reflection of how much the situation is - or not - in your control, never to allow a depressive degree to be reached. To do so, seek proper guidance.
 


 
If you don't have time to go to a clinic in person, how about getting online psychological help to answer your questions and concerns? Even if you can't during the day, you can enjoy the night or weekends when you're not doing things.
 


 
 
 


 













 
CONCLUSION
 


 
5 Clues to Reveal True Intentions
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
When you find out that someone has hidden intentions, you may feel anxious about dealing with that person. In this chapter, we are going to look at five ways to spot hidden intentions and what you can do to prevent them from being manipulated.
 


 
There are undoubtedly very toxic people in the world, and chances are you have already met many. A person with hidden motives is likely to be selfish or narcissistic.
 


 
You will generally notice that many may seem sympathetic at first, but in the end, it is only a trick of bewitchment to get something from you later.
 


 
These individuals have bad intentions. They don't want to be your friend just for the sake of being your friend; on the contrary, they use patterns to manipulate you into doing things they want you to do.
 


 
So how do you identify these bad intentions in toxic people from the start? Some people are extremely subtle with their intent and may turn out to be the most amazing liars you could meet. But if you can notice any of these signs in a person, then you have probably spotted them before they can even take action.
 


 
Here are some clues to identify hidden intentions that someone has toward you and what you can do to avoid dealing with people who are trying to make you weak.
 


 
1. One idea in mind
 


 
They continue on their way with an obsession, which ends up bringing you to their submission. The only reason they do this to everyone is so that they can achieve whatever goal they have planned in this interaction. You may notice that they are constantly talking about the same things, in an attempt to make you get an idea into your head, so you can help them achieve what they're looking for.
 


 
Don't feel like you have to do anything. Refuse to give them what they want, even at the risk of repeating yourself. You can always say no, move on or completely withdraw from this situation.
 


 
2. Do you have a bad feeling?
 


 
You will feel misunderstood, irritated, uncertain, or you will simply have a very bad feeling after speaking with a toxic person; these signs generally indicate that you are the prey of a malicious person.
 


 
These people give you the feeling of not being heard, a bit like you are talking to a wall all the time, and you have been playing a trick. Don't be a victim of these negative feelings; because that's what they're looking for in the background. They feed on this energy and use it to their advantage.
 


 
3. The beautiful speeches
 


 
Toxic people have the language of a demon when it comes to persuading someone to do something they want. For some reason, they have this ability to spin the words in a fabricated mess that seems almost too good to be true. They are among the most amazing liars, always testing the people around them to see who deserves their time.
 


 
Do not listen or let their persuasive words make you do something you do not want to do. Listen to your intuition and withdraw from any situation that makes you uncomfortable. They will try to manipulate you more if you don't.
 


 
4. Tirelessly needy 
 


 
Toxic people will often start a discussion and a targeted dialogue with others only to speak about them. At the start of the conversation, they will make you feel like you are very interested in what is going on in your personal life, but will always somehow turn the conversation around.
 


 
They will relentlessly flood you with the things they want. It is not just a general desire or need, and they will tell you exactly what they need from you or what they want you to do for them. Do not be easy prey to this manipulation.
 


 
5. Irregular body language and eye contact 
 


 
While it can be very difficult for a liar to maintain eye contact with someone, they do everything they can to maintain proper body language and eye contact. To them, it makes them look like "normal" people with good intentions.
 


 
It couldn't be further from the truth. If you start to notice that they behave improperly, then chances are they want to get something from you. Don't be fooled, look them straight in the eyes, watch their hand movements to see if they are trying to cover their mouth or face. Sweating is a good clue, as well as the constant fluttering of the eyelids.
 


 













 
BOOK 3
 


 
Manipulation and NLP Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
INTRODUCTION
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Dark Psychology attempts to explain certain impulses, emotions, beliefs, and processes of rational thinking that contribute to antithetical sexual behavior to contemporary human acts. Dark Psychology postulates there is a human mind setting where all individuals can act atrociously without intent. The Dark Singularity invented theory. 
 


 
Once the man started speaking, mental manipulation and writing have been of considerable significance. As we have seen in history, there are several forms of manipulators; those that manipulate other people for economic reasons, without remorse. Deception, manipulation, terror, seduction, etc. Many people are exploited. We've developed persuasion skills since our childhood, and the most obvious is; impulses and deceptions to achieve our goals. 
 


 
Our homes show vital signs of abuse. In families, there is usually a more influential individual who can become a manipulator, either our father or mother. Masculinity has been more common in past generations than in present times. It was the man who took control in the social sector, but as we matured, we were able to repress this scenario that we used to, balancing these aspects. There are tall, strong women now. And our controlling media are the greatest manipulators. 
 


 
A combination of personality traits Machiavellianism, narcissism, and subclinical psychopathy is called the Black Triad, embodied in, among other things, self-esteem and careless, deceptive actions. These three characteristics are conceptualized differently, while similarity exists empirically. They require an arrogant, aggressive, interpersonal style. Strong features of these characteristics are essential when hiring and assessing managers in organizational psychology. In studies, men typically have higher values for all dark triad characteristics than women. 
 


 
For years, mind-management intrigued people. Books and movies told tales of brainwashed or hypnotized people doing things they would never have done otherwise. There are people on both sides of the issue; some say there's no such thing as mind control, and it's all made up, while others believe they can be affected by mind control at any moment.
 


 
This guidebook offers a detailed overview of what emotional intelligence means and how this knowledge can help you identify, prevent and overcome many of the common traps that keep people from achieving their goals in areas of their lives. 
 


 
As you read this guide book, you will find a top-down approach to understand what emotional manipulation is, how it can affect you, where you can turn for help, and what you can do to formulate an action plan personally.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER ONE
 


 
Understanding Dark Psychology
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Dark Psychology is the study of human nature concerning people's thoughts, feelings, and behaviors linked to this innate propensity to prey on others without clear motives. Because behavior is consciously, consciously, and conceptually based on modus operandi, dark psychology incorporates the notion that the closer a person gets to the "black pit" of unclean evil, the less likely he/she will have a motive. Although the author claims unclean evil is never achieved because it's infinite, dark psychology claims others are close. 
 


 
Given its latent form, Dark Psychology may be misunderstood by its potential to perceive as aberrant psychopathy. History is full of examples of this latent tendency to become involved, destructive actions. Modern psychiatry and psychology define psychopaths as a killer without remorse. Dark psychology offers a continuum of seriousness from thought and experiencing aggression to extreme, irrational victimization and assault. 
 


 
Dark Psychology claims everybody has violent potential. The ability is inherent to all organisms, and both internal and external factors raise the likelihood of erratic behavior. These practices are deceptive and frequently operate without intent. Dark psychology suggests humans misunderstand the predator-bear model. Dark psychology is also psychological, so no other human being feels it. Aggression and disaster may occur among other living organisms, but humankind is the only species capable of doing so without intent.
 


 
Dark Psychology can be characterized as the study of the human condition as it relates to people's psychological nature to pursue other people without intent and general perceptions of instinctive instincts and social sciences driven by criminal urges or deviants.
 


 
Dark Psychology recognizes all subjective cognitive thoughts, emotions, attitudes, and processes that contribute to predatory behavior those conflicts with contemporary human behavioral values. Dark Psychology claims that 99.99 percent of the time is intentional, deviant, and violent conduct and has a logical, focused purpose. It is the remaining 0.01%, the amounts of Adlerian theory and teleology in Dark Psychology. Dark Psychology assumes that the human psyche has an area that allows some people to engage in cruel behaviors without a purpose. It's named Dark Singularity in this theory.
 


 
Dark Psychology notes that all humanity has a reservoir of malicious intentions toward others, ranging from minimally intrusive and transient thoughts to purely psychopathic deviant behavior without any coherent reasoning.
 


 
What Dark Psychology considers the Dark Factor is the limiting factors that serve as accelerators or attractors to get closer to the Dark Singularity, and where somebody's horrible actions fall into the Dark Continuous. Below is a brief introduction to these definitions. Dark Psychology is a theory battled by this author for 15 years. It is only recently that the meaning, theory, and psychology of this dimension of the human condition has finally been conceptualized.
 


 















The Dark Triad
 


 
 
 


 
The Dark Triad is a relatively new concept in the literature, and the impact that this concept has had in recent years is noted by the vast amount of research in this area of
 
interest.
 


 
The Dark Triad consists of three undesirable personality factors: narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy. These traits involve malice, grandiosity, duplicity, the need for power. Psychopathy is characterized by impulsivity and antisocial behaviors, Machiavellianism by manipulative actions towards others, and narcissism by arrogance, vanity, selfishness, and grandiosity.
 


 
 
 


 
Characteristics
 


 
The dark triad is described as a component of personality consisting of three distinct subclinical personality traits, the common feature being aversion.
 


 
The term Machiavellianism
 can be briefly described as a person's tendency to be manipulative. 
 


 
Machiavellianism is the concept that refers to interpersonal strategies used in one's interest using flattery, emotional detachment, and deception to manipulate social and interpersonal interactions. These people are perceived as smart and attractive. However, intelligence does not correlate with the aspirations of Machiavellian life, such as significant material situation or status. People with Machiavellian traits tend to expose others to achieve their interests; this aspect was predictably correlating with a low level of empathy.
 


 
Machiavellians easily take the lead in small groups and prefer to negotiate the formation of an alliance in complicated situations. People with high scores on Machiavellianism succeed and are excited about it, especially when circumstances involve face-to-face interactions, a place conducive to innovation, and situations where the emotional load is substantial.
 


 
People with this trait should not be seen as evil bastards, but as people who force the rules rather than break them. Thus, just as people with high scores on Machiavellianism should not be considered channels, neither should those with very low scores on this characteristic be regarded as models of the perfection of social virtue. We could think that they make art from manipulation techniques, deliberate lying, and social influence.
 


 
Narcissism
 is characterized by feelings of grandeur (in one's fantasies or real behavior), the need for admiration, and a lack of empathy for others. Narcissists have an exaggerated sense of importance, and they are preoccupied with fantasies of success, beauty, power, or ideal love. 
 


 
He needs constant admiration, shows arrogant behavior or attitude, superiority, and tends to take advantage of interpersonal relationships (exploits other people for gain or personal gain), feeling that he is entitled to certain favors. They always overestimate their abilities and exaggerate their achievements, often being perceived as boastful and pretentious. 
 


 
They take it for granted that others appreciate their efforts just as much and are surprised if they are not praised as they think they deserve. Being often preoccupied with overestimating their achievements, they underestimate the contribution of others.
 


 
Narcissism is associated with self-orientation and extreme vanity, a constant need for attention, admiration, and self-determination, an expectation of special favors that are simply due to him. For the narcissist, understanding the workings of others is essential to exploit such favors on their part. 
 


 
Narcissism is associated with self-orientation and extreme vanity, a constant need for attention, admiration, and self-determination, an expectation of special favors that are simply due to him. For the narcissist, understanding the workings of others is essential to exploit such favors on their part. Narcissism is associated with self-orientation and extreme vanity, a constant need for attention, admiration, and self-determination, an expectation of special favors that are simply due to him. For the narcissist, understanding the workings of others is essential to exploit such favors on their part.
 


 
Narcissists are extremely sensitive to criticism and feel it as a direct threat to their self-image and vision, which is a somewhat problematic consequence in certain situations. For example, narcissistic leaders are quite abrasive with their subordinates. They cannot tolerate dissent on the policy they impose. However, paradoxically, these leaders manage to be significant due to the emotional isolation they show.
 


 
Psychopathy
 is marked by the ability to influence and dominate others, to show a low degree of anxiety, take risks, look for "strong sensations" and also tend to be indifferent, selfish, aggressive and profitable, act unplanned, and have a low imaginative capacity. People with this trait are opportunistic, selfish, and cruel, yet they can be charming, ambitious, and manipulative. Egocentric impulses, specific to this trait, can lead to unethical behaviors. Feelings of social responsibility are not pronounced, and they rarely feel shame, guilt, or remorse over the consequences of their decisions. Psychopathy is defined not only by antisocial behavior but also by an emotional "deterioration," such as lack of guilt.
 


 
Psychopaths are deceptive, biased, superficial in attitude and in what they do, dominant over others, manipulative, show very little affection and somewhat superficial, are unable to create strong emotional connections with others, and are almost incapable of feeling empathy, remorse, or guilt.
 


 
Initially, the triad was individually framed in the areas of the five major personality traits (extraversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, neuroticism, and openness) to analyze similarities and differences concerning fundamental personality dimensions.
 


 
Although these traits seem to manifest as an unstable core of personality, they can be integrated and recognized as the right qualities of co-leadership. Machiavellians are characterized by long-term strategic orientation and can postpone their immediate satisfaction for a long-term reward. At the same time, psychopathy is characterized by a person's willingness to take certain risks, and this is not necessarily a negative aspect.
 


 
 
 













 
Explore your dark side to regain control
 


 
 
 


 
Do you have feelings you hate? Do you do things you're ashamed to talk about? Is there a part of you that you want to delete? Do you want things you hate to admit? We have a dark side that we are afraid to face.
 


 
Your dark side does not understand the intentions, the commitments, doing what is supposed to be done. He remains overwhelmed, but growing, looking for a way out.
 


 
Exploring your dark side will allow you to rethink your control if you understand and know yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
What do you feed your dark side?
 


 
The dark side of your mind feeds on misery and self-destruction with everything you refuse, with those desires that cannot materialize.
 


 
Your unmet need produces negative emotions that feed you. If you can't get rid of these needs, these negative emotions will continue to make you worse and make you believe that this is your true or even your only version.
 


 
Not feeding this obscure part of your mind is the only way to control it.
 


 
However, there are many things you don't know how to do because I'm bad for you, and I still do. You know you shouldn't smoke, you shouldn't overdo your fat intake, you shouldn't yell at your partner or children, you shouldn't feed unnecessary discussions that lead nowhere ... But, anyway, you do it all this.
 


 
 
 


 
For your dark side, good intentions are not enough. Either take action and turn off the power, or it will take over the best of you.
 


 
 
 


 
Why do you need your dark side?
 


 
In order not to feed your dark side, you need to know what he likes best. It feeds on negative psychological worries, those foods that make you shake tightly in a previous state that creates suffering.
 


 
These negative blows prevent you from feeling safe, balanced, and healthy. Express yourself through rejection, humiliation, betrayal, feelings of worthlessness, and failure. All this negativity feeds the darkest part of the psyche, which grows with negative emotions, thoughts, and behaviors with the influence of toxic people that have existed and still exist in your life.
 


 
Whenever something negative happens in your life or whenever you remember something you don't like, your darkest part, which clings to this negativity as if you were entitled to it, comes out. There was another way out. To attract more misery, self-destruction, and negativity to feed yourself. How to deal with the dark side?
 


 
 
 


 
The solution to face the dark side of the mind is to face it consciously.
 


 
There are things we can't eliminate, but for those that can be addressed, you need to know them. The biggest challenge is to bury yourself in mind and illuminate everything that is hidden in it.
 


 
Share the dark side hides much more than unfulfilled desires, frustrated aspirations, or broken dreams, but only you can throw yourself into the water and exploit it. Whenever you face negativity in your life, every time you feel something creepy trying to catch yourself, you should try to understand why this is happening, without feeling ashamed.
 


 
You have to accept that there is an obscure part of your mind that is there and that it will not turn into smoke simply because you want to suppress it
 


 
Repression will make you stronger and with more force, explode once you have the opportunity. Be brave.
 


 
 
 













 
The archetype of the shadow: the dark side of our psyche
 


 
 
 


 
The archetype of the shadow represents, according to Carl Jung's analytical psychology, the "dark side" of our personality. This is an explosive world in our psyche with the most primitive, the sharpest selfishness, the most repressed instincts, and my "mind" has "denied" the conscious mind, and we reject the deep exile of our being.
 


 
We have all heard about this concept, this shadow archetype that continues to be used to talk about this confrontation in psychology. From that feeling of struggle that we sometimes have in ourselves when working on our frustrations, fears, insecurity, or resentment.
 


 
However, we cannot forget that the idea brought by Carl Jung through his work on archetypes was already present in our historical and cultural society. The concept of the shadow or the dark side is this well-known duality, which had even served as inspiration for Robert Louis Stevenson to now create his classic Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde long before Jung himself developed his theory of the shadow archetype.
 


 
Everything we consider at one time "bad" because of our education and the moral standards of our society becomes our shadow. However, it is not advisable to consider all these internal dynamics as condemnable or dangerous experiences, to the point that we all carry within us Hyde tends to escape.
 


 
Jung himself explained that there are different types of shadows and that one way to achieve personal well-being, healing, and freedom is to make them aware by confronting them.
 


 
 
 


 
The archetype of the shadow: the dark side of the human being
 


 
The archetype of the shadow is closely linked to Freud's concept of the unconscious. However, it contains unique nuances that distinguish and significantly enrich it. We must not forget that what began as an intellectual love story between Freud and Jung was gradually cooled to the point where he came to say the father of psychoanalysis was "a tragic figure of a great man, but of someone whom he did not share the therapeutic method.
 


 
Jung developed his method, analytical psychology. He left the couch and the asymmetrical relationship between therapist and patient to establish a conversation-based therapy where he investigated the structure of the psyche and unconsciously where the archetypes navigated. Of these, the one that could have the most significant therapeutic value was, without a doubt, the archetype of the shadow. Let's see its characteristics:
 


 
The shadow, a familiar but repressed presence
 




 
"Shadow" is a term that Jung borrowed from Friedrich Nietzsche.
 


 
This idea represented the hidden personality of each person. At first glance, most of us claim to be (and perceive as) good and noble beings. However, there are inside us some repressed dimensions, inherited instincts, where violence, anger, hatred sometimes hide…
 


 
The archetype of the shadow does not live only on each person. I Not sometimes present in "groups of people," insects, in certain types of religions, or even in political parties. These are organizations that, at any time, can cast their shadow in the light to justify violent actions against humanity itself.
 


 
The shadow is more destructive, insidious, and dangerous when we "repress" it. Then he "projects," thus revealing, according to Carl Jung, disorders such as neurosis or psychosis.
 


 
Similarly, Jung differentiated two typologies in his shadow archetype. The first is the personal shadow, which we carry with our small frustrations, our fears, our selfishness, and the most common negative dynamics. However, there would also be an impersonal shadow, which contains the essence of the more archetypal evil, the one that accompanies criminal genocide, ruthlessness, and so on.
 




 
 
 


 
How to deal with our shadow?
 


 
It is possible that the theory of Jung's shadow archetype is interesting to us on a theoretical level, that it is attractive, that it has a symbolic and mystical character. We all perceive in this concept the most classical representation of taboo, evil, and this dark dimension of the human personality, which always provokes excellent interest. However, can we practically apply it in our daily lives?
 


 
The answer is, "yes." As a father of analytical psychology, he reminds us in such works as "Archetypes and the Collective Unconscious" our role in life is to accept and fully integrate "our shadow" with the personality to become aware of it and work with it., which he directly faces. To neglect her, to let her continue in her unconscious universe, can undermine our balance and the possibility of being happy.
 


 
We cannot forget what kind of dynamics this concept we call shadow is: Here, we find our fears, our past traumas, the disappointments that poison us, the dreams that we did not realize through indecision, and that turn into frustrated sharks sailing in our personality. If we hide them, these inner demons become stronger, and if we ignore them, they will eventually control us, often projecting on others an image of ourselves that they do not like.
 


 
Therefore, we cannot forget that our personal growth and psychological well-being will always depend on our ability to highlight these shadows. This act of courage will be the starting point of a delicate but precious work, which tends to heal us, to find calm and well-being.
 


 













 
CHAPTER TWO
 


 
What Is NLP
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Neurolinguistic programming (NLP) is one of many techniques for modifying behavior and experiencing. Neurolinguistic programming focuses on the relationship between the functioning of the human neural network (hence the word "neuro" in the NLP name), linguistic (linguistic) aspects, and the resulting behavioral, but also influencing the behavior of other people (collectively understood as programming). Although it probably sounds quite complicated, in reality, neurolinguistic programming is not that difficult to understand. What's more - basically anyone willing to do so can get acquainted with this technique.
 


 
NLP Neurolinguistic Programming is the abbreviation for Neuro-Linguistic Programming. At first glance, the title sounds exceptionally pompous, and it seems that we are dealing with something overly complicated and inaccessible. In reality, Neurolinguistic Programming is a clear, precise, and easily applicable science immediately. NLP is the study of how people work, understanding the mechanisms, and their practical use in everyday life. NLP is both simple and "dangerously good," in the sense that, using the right techniques, you can change your condition, you can change other people's states, you can convince more easily, you can drive easier, you increase your efficiency, you increase productivity, eliminate mental and emotional blockages.
 


 
In short, the abbreviation NLP (Neuro-Linguistic Programming) is explained as follows:
 




 
N - Neurology
 - How the mind works and how we think to become exponential in the environment in which we live
 


 
L - Linguistics
 - How we use language to build trust and manage our and those around us
 


 
P - Programming
 - How we order our actions and thoughts to generate exceptional results
 




 
 
 


 
History of NLP (neurolinguistic programming)
 


 
Neuro-linguistic programming was born in 1976, co-founded by Richard Bandler and John Grinder. Their approach was slightly different from the scientific method in general, in that they began to study the best therapists of the time, to see what they were doing, to systematize what they were doing, and then to devise strategies that worked. Thus, for a moment, he was not interested in the scientific basis, but only the final result, namely: What do they do to have effects? Among them are Fritz Perl’s (gestalt therapy), Virginia Satir (family therapy), and Milton Erickson (hypnotherapy).
 


 
The NLP was an important step forward at that time and has maintained its reputation today. On the other hand, there are still opponents today, as to how neurolinguistic programming works is an empirical rather than a scientific approach, despite the pretentious title. For example, you can send a child to a psychologist, when at the same time, the same child can be sent to the NLP therapist. Assuming that this child refuses to go to school, through NLP techniques, the child can change his mind about school in 30 minutes (be careful, not always!), Unlike a psychologist where he could go for years. Days at therapy sessions. This was just an example, but this is where the controversy comes from. The NLP is interested in solving the problem immediately in solving it, and as long as it is solved, it goes on. The alternative of psychologists (at least in the 80s) was to probe the unconscious and the subconscious of the person (somehow to work on the cause) until, miraculously, the child had a revelation.
 


 
I think that to say that Neuro-linguistic Programming is good or bad, or to say that psychology or classical therapy is good or not, are statements that do not help us much. In my view, these sciences complement each other, just as they complement each other. with other sciences.
 


 
 
 


 
Where does NLP apply?
 


 
Some might say that NLP - neurolinguistic programming applies in too many areas. So it is, fortunately, or unfortunately. See below the three areas in which we can use neurolinguistic programming, but before that, I also offer five definitions, in the vision of those who created and developed it.
 




 
Neurolinguistic programming in business - how to apply it?
 




 
In business, sometimes unintentionally, sometimes intentionally, we encounter neurolinguistic programming techniques everywhere. For example, NLP techniques are for problem solving or creativity. In the creation of slogans or commercials, we also see NLP. In sales or negotiation, NLP techniques are often applicable immediately.
 


 
Also, in building a business strategy, you can use neurolinguistic programming techniques to create a skeleton (using modeling), and you can optimize using the Disney strategy. NLP is also a critical step in Leadership. It seems to me that the science of neurolinguistic programming goes beyond the realm of generalist techniques. For example, if we say that a leader inspires those in the team or those who sympathize with them, neurolinguistic programming will teach you concretely HOW to do this. Without making NLP a dogmatic approach, I can say that I am an NLP fan because it gives me concrete answers to the question HOW IS IT DONE?
 




 
Neurolinguistic programming (NLP) in personal development
 




 
Here the NLP attacks the most complicated topics such as self-confidence, achieving goals, or managing emotions. Using NLP, you optimize your "relationship with yourself" and the relationship with those around you. NLP techniques not only help you grow, but they also help you get up when things are not exactly rosy. For example, some of the methods I use to make it possible for people to do seemingly impossible things to do (such as going through the fire, bending a steel bar around their neck, breaking a wooden board) are all collected from NLP. Basically, in a way, we could say that through NLP techniques, the impossible becomes possible. If you are wondering to what extent you can integrate NLP techniques alone or with the help of someone, you will find the answer below.
 




 
Neurolinguistic programming (NLP) in therapies
 




 
Neurolinguistic programming is also applied in therapies. Some therapists have chosen to integrate it thoroughly, and others who have integrated only part of the NLP techniques. I will not insist on this field because it is already addressed to specialists, and the debates and opinions are very divided and different.
 




 
Coaching with NLP
 




 
Lately, Coaching is also in great demand in many countries. Without going into the details of coaching schools, I want to remind you that there are quite a few coaches who coach with NLP. Specifically, they use, beyond the actual coaching technique, tools in neurolinguistic programming to deliver coaching with results.
 


 
 
 













 
The principal of Neuro-linguistic programming
 


 
 
 


 
1. The internal map is unique
 


 
One of the concepts of the NLP relates to the orientation people have around them in the world. The way the person orients himself has to do with his inner map. The internal map is simple in the early stages of life. However, as we grow, the map will become more complex, and new routes will be opened.
 


 
The more complete the map, the more successful the person is. The map of the world is individual, and it is based on our experience. Each person has his or her map, and no two maps are the same.
 


 
2. The best map is one that offers more than one road
 


 
As mentioned above, the complete map is also more accurate, offering more opportunities to reach a goal or solve the problem. This involves flexibility and the ability to react to an important event in various ways. The map is not the territory it represents, but if accurate, it will have a territory-like structure and be more useful.
 


 
3. Every behavior has a positive intention
 


 
It may be one of NLP's most debated ideas. This argument refers to the fact that every person and action has an intrinsic positive purpose. For example, someone doubts a smoker has a good intention to smoke. But according to this theory, the smoker may smoke or be socially accepted. NLP seeks to turn this optimistic attitude into a more efficient and appropriate individual behavioral model.
 


 
4. The structure of experience
 


 
This principle shows how each interaction consists of a particular structure. Each thinking, feeling, memory, or experience is a collection of elements. This implies that if each perception has a structure, its impact can be modified by changing its composition.
 


 
5. All problems have a solution
 


 
This theory relates to the idea that there is a solution to any problem. And because often it may seem ideal, the solutions cannot be enforced. Many times, issues can occur that do not have a simple solution. This applies to the person's map. Since then, the fewer paths or options that you have, the fewer approaches that you can give to the actual situation. Additionally, the definition of the problem is related to the map material. A richer map offering more services will experience some fewer alarming circumstances.
 


 
6. Everyone has the strength they need
 


 
This is one of the principles of the NLP and has to do with the individual's personal growth because it means that everybody has the power to accomplish what is being suggested. The question comes up when the restricting values of individual affect self-esteem.
 


 
7. Body and mind are part of the same system
 


 
This principle refers to the human being is body and mind. In other words, every feeling and emotion affects the body. This is also true in reverse. For example, a disease that affects the body will have psychological repercussions. Therefore, for NLP, thought changes that modify physical problems are essential. By the way, have you heard of embodied cognition?
 


 
8. The meaning of communication depends on the result
 


 
It is necessary to establish clear guidelines for communication, which do not give rise to misunderstandings, nor an option of distorted personal interpretations by the recipient of the message.
 


 
9. There are no failures but opportunities
 


 
When a person is continuously on the move, he has several ways to achieve the goal. Failures must be seen as opportunities, that is, as measures that allow you to overcome and move in the desired direction.
 


 
10. If something doesn't work, try something else
 


 
Sometimes, people insist on doing something that doesn't work, and they also don't change the way they do. At this point, the famous phrase "don't expect different results if you always do the same" makes sense. NLP professionals aim to help recognize and modify those behaviors that are not effective and that make you stumble, again and again, with the same stone.
 


 
 
 













 
NLP Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
NLP techniques are useful for all those who need a guide to overcome obstacles and who have resistance to change to get out of the well-known comfort zone.
 


 
They serve to provide you with the necessary resources, although to achieve this, it is vitally essential to want to carry out the change and have the belief that reaching the objective is possible and useful for you.
 


 
As you get closer to your goals, your well-being with yourself will increase. The more energy you use in the resources that NLP offers you, the more likely you are to succeed. These resources are designed to be applied in your daily life and improve your quality of life.
 


 
Next, I am going to explain the most used techniques in NLP.
 




 
Rapport
 




 
This approach is demonstrated in circumstances where we would like to improve our contact with anyone in the community, whether they are working or personal. 
 


 
This aims at creating an environment of cooperation and confidence in which there is no conflict, debate, or judgment, and there is active listening between the two. The interpretation of the message the other party wants to transmit is being worked on, as well as being able to communicate just the message we want to send to our listeners. 
 


 
We are going to use the mention of those things we know that connect us to our listeners. In reference, body language is vitally important in addition to using verbal language.
 




 
Covert orders
 




 
According to this technique, questions are usually formulated, ending with an ascending musical intonation, while orders are crafted with a descending intonation
.
 


 
Thus, NLP proposes to intone the questions in a descending way, as an order, to achieve the desired effect.
 




 
Anchorage
 




 
We spoke about anchoring as a method to reduce the feeling of distress in a stressful situation, such as fear or anguish. This method is based on social learning conditioning.
 




 
Physiology
 




 
It is about knowing the functioning of our body and how the postures, the type of breathing, and the heart rate, among others, influence our behaviors and our emotions.
 


 
If we modify our body postures and learn to breathe correctly, we can change our behavior and, consequently, what we transmit to the outside.
 




 
Eye access
 




 
Ocular accesses are part of physiology and refer to the sequence of eye movements referring to the intention of the person.
 




 
Internal or external reference
 




 
References are a form of metaprogram, that is, mental patterns that are unconscious and systemic. 
 


 
Being mindful of both our actions and those of others allows us to increase our understanding of ourselves and empathy for others. 
 


 
The reference norm, in particular, allows us to know what the principles and standards of our behavior are focused on. That is where our decision-making process resides.
 


 
We can distinguish two styles of reference:
 




 
Internal Reference: People who use this guide focus on their perspective, their view of the world, and their feelings. If we want to sway their opinion, we're going to use questions like: How do you feel about the decision you're going to take?
 


 
External reference:  Those with that kind of experience attach great importance to others' views and seek agreement with the rest of the people around them. The phrases we will use will be geared towards revealing our point of view, as the individual will consider it.
 


 
Visual / auditory / kinesthetic
 




 
Every person has different channels of choice (visual, auditory, or kinesthetic) for decision making. 
 


 
For example, if we want to convince a person whose preferred channel is the auditory one, we would use that to propose our target.
 




 
Change of beliefs and empowerment of identity
 




 
If we have beliefs as a basis to determine our reality, to identify our current beliefs, our internal conflicts, and to be aware of a change in these, we can change our reality.
 




 
Alternative illusion
 




 
The purpose of this approach is to convince the other person to do what we would like them to do. It consists of offering the individual many decision-making choices, but all of them will be guided at what we want to accomplish. 
 


 
For instance, if our goal is to go to the beach, the question we must ask to meet our goal will be: are we going to the beach by car or train? Why don't we go to the beach instead?
 




 
Modal operators of possibility or necessity
 




 
Metaprograms are firm thinking strategies that act unconsciously in people, according to NLP. Inside these are the possibility or requirement modal operators in the form of implicit instructions from our internal dialogue. 
 


 
Such implicit commands are expressed in the form of words such as I must, ought, need, etc. Each in the individual creates an emotion. 
 


 
I will provide a concrete example so that it can be understood better. Using the expression "you can't do this" as an excuse for not acting is quite common, and the question we usually ask is why you can't? 
 


 
If we answer this query, the individual will be able to send us an endless list of excuses for not being able to perform the behavior. On the other hand, if the question that we are returning is "What stops you? With this question, we direct the person to find potential solutions to his or her dilemma, rather than to think of excuses. That is, it focuses attention on the solution.
 


 
 
 













 
Benefits derived from the use of NLP
 


 
 
 


 
The strategies used in NLP include a set of advantages that address a wide variety of needs and aspirations that anyone should recognize at any point in their lives.
 




 
We are increasing our perception of ourselves. 
 


 
Managing emotions: In any situation, a person can control and manage their emotions and actions (for example, it can help you face a job interview successfully). 
 


 
Through our communication techniques: When coping with stressful situations, NLP uses anchoring as a way to reach targets or solve other problems. One of the most common issues in the field of communication is the fear of speaking in public. Generally, this condition produces feelings of frustration and anxiety. A fun, comfortable, and optimistic moment that we have in our mind is "anchored" through the anchoring process, and we relate it to the stressful situation at the exact moment through visualization techniques. 
 


 
Learn Strategies for Creativity. 
 


 
Increase motivational strategies: both to achieve personal and professional goals, helps to increase and make the motivational strategy more successful. 
 


 
Understand our style of learning and that of others: our questions are often informed by something that has been learned over time. Cognitive patterns, antecedents that have contributed to the development of a way of thought because it has happened frequently, and it gets to a point where it is hard to modify. 
 


 
Increase our ability to attain personal goals: reasons concealed in the unconscious and made unconsciously allow us to delay beginning to accomplish our objectives. This consists of identifying the cause, making it aware of it so that it can be changed later, and taking the decision to act. 
 


 
Develop effective decision-making techniques. 
 


 
Comprise, embrace, and learn to manage cycles of personal and professional transition. 
 


 
Removing the fears and phobias.
 




 
 
 













 
Manipulating the Mind Through NLP
 


 
 
 


 
Those who deal with NLP are quickly confronted with the accusation of manipulation. Critics accuse NLP of being selfish, manipulative, and unethical because it puts personal interests first.
 


 
From a value-neutral point of view, every action and communication are on "manipulation." That is the reason to do something or say: to get in touch with someone and make something at the other. Instead, the question arises as to whose cost something is being done. Whoever deceives his counterpart acts at his expense. If benefits, advantages for the communication partner are not taken into account, any act on is negatively manipulative. On the other hand, NLP wants to create so-called innovations: conscious influence, practical actions in the sense of successful communication for mutual benefit.
 


 
The 15 basic assumptions in the NLP
 


 
The so-called basic assumptions describe fundamental and useful theories of how excellent communication can work.
 




 
People are unique and experience the world in different ways
 




 
People are different; each is unique in itself. However, people tend to see themselves as a yardstick, starting from their world.
 


 
Accepting the uniqueness of the other means recognizing his value, respecting him and his individuality. It is essential not to allow diversity, to appreciate it, and not to rate "be different" as "better" or "worse." It also means that each person takes up his environment differently and chooses from the many stimuli according to his criteria. The result is individual images, priorities, and conclusions that can stand respectfully side by side.
 




 
Mind, body, and environment form a system that influences each other
 




 
The mental attitude of the person influences his psychic and physical well-being; his behavior affects his thinking. If you change a part in this system, the whole system changes like a mobile.
 




 
Any behavior is communication
 




 
Each behavior contains messages to the other person, whether it's visible movements, things, postures, or "non-retention," such as silence. A person's actions are the only visible, audible, and tangible reference to the neurological processing processes that take place internally. A person's abilities and values are not directly perceptible, but can only be seen and experienced through his specific hands. Everything else is conjecture, evaluation, and interpretation.
 




 
The importance of communication arises from the reaction it provokes
 




 
This is a crucial question, namely: who is the cause of good, successful, or bad communication – the sender of a message or the one who receives a message? "You misunderstood this" and "I expressed myself inaccurately" reflect the two opposing poles as statements. If, for example, the communication occurs adverse reactions, there is little to blame the recipient. On the contrary, the sender must supersecret statements and formulations in such a way that the addressee understands them in his or her sense.
 


 
The receiver, not the transmitter, is essential. It is not about the latter's intention, not about what he wants to say, but about what arrives at the interlocutor, what he can and wants to understand. The Sen. must take responsibility for his communication.
 




 
People orientate themselves on spiritual maps
 




 
A map is never the actual landscape, just as the menu is not the food, or the score is not the music. It is an image of reality, a model of reality. The map shows the user where they are, which areas are where, and how far they are, for example, to the destination. This applies not only to road maps but also to find their way around the world in general.
 


 
In spiritual maps and models, the sensory pressures are stored. They are not the real world, but they make it possible to find their way around them. Everyone has different spiritual maps that are no better or worse than those of others. For example, people have so-called perception preferences, i.e., they use their sensory organs and evaluate the stimuli differently. These differences are often the reason for conflicts and misunderstandings. The first step towards understanding and successful communication is to get to know and understand the map of the area. Different maps appear in the language: words are used differently or linked to other content.
 


 
The usefulness of spiritual maps depends on the purpose for which they are used. People consciously or unconsciously align their actions according to their maps. They can't change reality, but their mental image: scales, ratings, the use of different maps for different goals – if the user manages to vary here, the use of the maps increases. The potential of the maps lies in the unused, individual choices.
 




 
It is better to have choices than to have none
 




 
Whether it's a choice from a wide range of goods or between different options for reaction, it's good to have the choice. NLP methods are intended to create new margins and alternatives. However, there is only one real choice with at least three different options:
 




 
If there is only one way available, this means a compulsion, a must.
 


 
Two possibilities are better than a compulsion, but a dilemma arises: the decision for something or against, an either
 


 
Only from three or more alternatives, there is a real choice, a free choice.
 






 
People make the best choice from what is currently available to them
 




 
Every person has a life path. He has learned what he can do and how to do it in the best possible way. What is of the most significant benefit comes to the application. If a person considers the benefits insufficient or encounters problems, he must develop new, better, and more suitable alternatives for action.
 




 
Any behavior makes sense
 




 
This means that people always function correctly in their world and map. Perhaps the meaning does not always open up to a viewer, but it is present from the parted.
 




 
Each behavior is based on a positive intention
 




 
This NLP often on skepticism. How can behavior be positive that has negative effects on other people, such as if an employee deliberately fails to inform her colleague? This basic assumption separates a person's behavior from their intent. In other words, against the background of the individual map of the actionable, the behavior is correct and beneficial. The benefits, often unheard of that are behind unproductive behavior, are called secondary gains.
 


 
10  Any behavior is useful in a specific context
 


 
Behaviour is learned and applied in a particular situation. Then it is appropriate and helpful. However, these behaviors are often transferred to other associations, places, and times when they are no longer fit and lead to negative consequences. The aim is to carry out the appropriate, appropriate action in every context.
 


 
11. People have all the resources they need for change
 


 
Everyone has a variety of skills and resources that they don't make full use of. At the heart of this very positive assumption is that people can learn, grow, and make full use of their potential
.
 




 
 All that man can learn is
 




 
NLP assumes that everything that a person has ever learned and mastered excellently can be known. Excellent behavior can be looked at, recreated, so to speak, by others. Motivation, dynamism, decision-making, creativity, self-confidence, and other skills can be learned. The first steps in the NLP are based on this basic assumption. It is a question of learning from a model and going through the same neurological processes in the course of the learning process, using the same spiritual maps as the model. He succeeds, and excellencies have a structure – and this is learnable in cash.
 




 
 There is no failure, only feedback
 




 
An error is a feedback, and it names the deviation from the desired target. When people seize it as an opportunity, the perspective changes. From this point of view, mistakes are the basis for solutions. For they define the degree of further improvements, show the way to the goal.
 


 
Checklist: How errors become chances
 




 
Questions you should ask yourself
 


 
What has been achieved so far?
 


 
What can I learn from this?
 


 
What works well?
 


 
What else is there to do?
 


 
What can I do instead of the previous solution?
 


 
What room for maneuver is there?
 


 
What are the alternatives on the way to the goal?
 


 
What is the current state of affairs?
 




 
14. If what you do doesn't work, do something else
 


 
Of course, this basic assumption only applies if someone has choices. Many people continue to use and even reinforce their previous behavior in the case of problems; for example, they become even louder in a conversation when there are difficulties in understanding. In most cases, such a procedure does little. Flexibility, i.e., doing something completely different, often brings the solution. The personal opportunity for development lies in creating those extra margins.
 


 
This view leads from the principle of guilt: not the other is to blame for my situation. I don't expect my environment to change to make a difference. I take responsibility for myself and change my behavior.
 


 
15. The most flexible element in a system controls the system
 


 
Being flexible means having a wide range of choices. The person with the most excellent flexibility to submit new proposals is most likely to put an end to a deadlocked, debilitating state. The more alternatives to action someone have at their disposal, the more likely they are to obtain the communicative partner's desired reaction.
 


 
How our perception works according to the NLP
 


 
There are many theories about how a man thinks. NLP assumes that he uses the senses inwardly, i.e., when we think or remember, we see images, hear sounds, smell, and taste, and feel touches. This means that all mental processes can be experienced and designed with sensual elements. The precondition is that content is absorbed through the senses, processed, and thus become so-called representation systems: the representation in the brain of what we have realized about the senses forms the basis of thought.
 













 
Strategies to Increase Self-Esteem Through NLP
 


 
 
 


 
When we only see our weak points. When we are not able to see the good things we do. When we don't value each other, all this indicates that we lack self-esteem, and NLP can help us reverse this dynamic.
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Self-esteem, self-confidence, and NLP
 


 
Self-esteem part of respect for the person with their strengths, weaknesses, and abilities. It is a feeling related to personal worth, that is, having a purpose and giving it the importance it deserves. On the other hand, self-confidence, which is closely linked to self-esteem, consists of satisfaction with our life and the perception of being happy. Some people complain about the lack of self-confidence, self-esteem, feeling of worth, and security. 
 


 
From NLP, it is proposed that these feelings are the result of a bad combination of the different parts of the personality that we saw in previous subjects. The critical part is precious, but its fundamental task is to disassemble everything that has been built, imagined, or thought.
 


 
The NLP considers that each person has the forces they need. All the resources available to a person are made up of the sum of the elements that underlie the experiences and perceptions. 
 


 
Thus, some people think they do not have enough patience, but who can say that they never have, at any time, and for any second, disposed of such a resource? Each person carries the resources with them; what happens is that they do not perceive them. 
 


 
Almost everyone has ever experienced how, in an extreme situation or under tremendous pressure, he has had unknown strengths and abilities. What is now is to make the most of personal resources without waiting for these borderline situations to appear.
 


 
The role of beliefs in self-esteem
 


 
Beliefs are generalizations about causes, meanings, and limits related to the environment, specific behaviors, abilities, and identity. Together with values, they are the essential sources that make up our way of being. Beliefs do not necessarily have to be based on a logical framework. Many stand out for their lack of logic, despite which we continue trying to adjust them to our reality by rejecting any other contrary idea.
 


 
Limiting beliefs prevent the development of self-confidence. Thinking "I am a failure,” "I am not important,” "I lack the strength to act like this," are some examples of phrases that people continuously formulate and in which they end up believing. Self-esteem is on the opposite side, and it allows us to be sure that we have the necessary internal resources to overcome the difficulties and use them. In labor matters, it is normal to have overwork. However, it is not normal that as a result of the accumulated beliefs the person feels guilty of not answering, he would like to the continuous demands of his boss, his clients, or his environment in general.
 


 
Reverse limiting beliefs
 


 
To change limiting beliefs, a series of steps are proposed:
 




 
The first step in changing limiting beliefs is to detect them. Once identified, the formulation that causes negative feelings is sought. Let's observe how we react, what emotions do you wake up?
 


 
The second step is to locate a state that has sufficient resources and anchor them. To do this, let's look into our lives for a situation in which we have truly felt good. Imagine that situation as intensely as we can, and as soon as we notice that positive feelings grow, let us anchor this state of memories.
 


 
Next, as a third step, we relive that situation while trying to change the way we state our limiting beliefs.
 




 
Build trust
 


 
To have little self-confidence is to have an image of oneself in which something important is missing: trust. Each person has an image that he interprets as a reference for his assessment, formed from a combination of images, sounds, movements, feelings. Therefore, what it is about is to obtain a positive image of oneself to increase self-confidence. To do this, the following steps are proposed:
 




 
View the current image of oneself in an associated way. Build an image of one regarding how it is perceived. We must pay attention to the perception of the body, the posture, the comments in which we describe ourselves.
 


 
Display the image in a dissociated way. In this step, we distance ourselves from that image, we leave it, and we observe ourselves as an outsider: How do we see each other? What differences do we observe with the idea of the first step?
 


 
The third step is to visualize a "copy" of the dissociated own image and positively modify those aspects that are less pleasant. Then we try to make our image even more enjoyable, experimenting until we find nothing that makes the image more pleasant.
 


 
The fourth step is to incorporate the modified copy of our dissociated image into the associated image, that is, to make the image we have created ours, the one that defines us.
 




 
 
 













 
Methods for rescuing self-esteem recommended by psychologists.
 


 
 
 


 
Do you feel overwhelmed with self-esteem down there and don't know what to do to get more satisfaction in your personal and professional life? Would you like to have a healthier and more harmonious marital relationship, develop professionally, and be less anxious about over-responsibility?
 


 
Breathe in and breathe! All these yearnings are the result of a lack of self-confidence and emotional and emotional needs. The good news is that they can be soothed and balanced with psychological techniques and methods for restoring self-esteem.
 


 
1. Be more constructive and think positive
 


 
The method of cognitive and behavioral restructuring is critical for rescuing and understanding the limiting and negative beliefs learned in childhood through family education, school, or other social spaces.
 


 
Through this method, you will learn to think more positively and act more constructively. This will make it easier for you to move away from negative people and calm your mind. Automatically, you will feel more confident and secure.
 


 
In a time of distress or more intense emotion, seek to arouse positive thinking. This way, you can change the way you interpret your experiences in a different way of dealing with other circumstances.
 


 
2. Valuing yourself to rescue self-esteem
 


 
Accepting all the flaws and imperfections and vibrating with the little achievements of everyday life is very important. Whether in relationships at work or in other areas of your life, have fewer expectations of others' attitudes and judgments. These are some of the ways that can help you regain your self-esteem.
 


 
Inferiority complexes and lack of family references can affect your self-confidence, but these frameworks can be reversed through understanding your boundaries and self-affirmation exercises.
 


 
So, push away ideas that insist on tormenting you about someone else's judgment on you and keep in mind your strengths and achievements. Try to be good, above all, within your conceptions, not in others.
 


 
3. Avoid Making Comparisons
 


 
One of the most challenging aspects of comparative behavior is understanding the negative impact it has on us. The first step is to know why these comparisons, when you started comparing yourself, and how this attitude affects you.
 


 
Breaking through these thinking patterns is sure to be a significant differentiator in gaining a sense of who you are and how different you might be from others.
 


 
Regularly review its essentiality and seek to know its flaws and qualities, seeking to learn that each human being has its characteristics.
 


 
4. Learn to deal with life's frustrations
 


 
Life's "no's" closed doors, and limitations are very frustrating situations. However, each person reacts differently to the same situations and experiences. It is, therefore, essential to be open to behavioral changes to overcome frustrations.
 


 
Face the frustrations and hardships of your life as challenges and try to learn from every situation you experience so that at the end of a complicated process, you will come out strong and mature.
 


 
Invest in a change of habits and conceptions to achieve the expected transformation. Combining this with best practices will make your self-esteem recovery process faster and lighter. Also, consider assisting a psychologist in collaborating with your mental stimuli.
 


 
5. Spend more time with the people you like
 


 
The feeling of "belonging" means that we need to feel like part of a place or group of people and, at the same time, consider that they are part of us as well. He is one of the pillars of self-esteem that makes you feel good and satisfied just by being around people you care about.
 


 
Try to find an opportunity during the day to be with your family. The welcome it provides is refreshing and aids in growing self-confidence, and is considered essential for success in life.
 


 
Set aside time each month or week, depending on your availability, to meet friends and socialize with them. It is even enjoyable to try to include that class of friends from the time of adolescence because keeping in touch with them reminds you of your old dreams, beliefs, and ambitions, which are essential activators of self-esteem and favor self-knowledge.
 


 
6. Be convinced of your goals
 


 
Every accomplishment begins with the goals we set in our mind. When we reflect on how much we can achieve our goals, self-esteem drives us to think more and better. So, use all your mental resources to visualize what you crave.
 


 
For example, if you want a promotion or have more freedom to express your ideas - it can be in the workplace, personal or family - stimulate your self-confidence and demonstrate your skills more effectively.
 


 
Set goals with which you can check your progress. Determine concrete criteria to measure the growth in the achievement of each goal you set, as this provides more security during your planning.
 


 
7. Talk to a Psychology Professional
 


 
Consulting with a psychology professional is one of the best solutions for restoring self-esteem. Do not let the situation get worse! Seeking help from a psychologist can reduce your suffering or even eliminate it once and for all in your life.
 


 
It is also necessary for you to make a personal reflection of how much the situation is - or not - in your control, never to allow a depressive degree to be reached. To do so, seek proper guidance.
 


 
If you don't have time to go to a clinic in person, how about getting online psychological help to answer your questions and concerns? Even if you can't during the day, you can enjoy the night or weekends when you're not doing things.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER THREE
 


 
Psychological Manipulation Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The art of subtly influencing others psychologically is one that can lead you a long way in life and help you to be a great leader and to follow your path. If that sounds as if it isn't very good, and that's because it isn't, but whether or not it depends on how you use it. 
 


 
There are several techniques to be effective in psychological warfare and to influence the views or perceptions of others subtly. One is to recognize a person's facets easily so that you can understand them better. It is sometimes referred to as the 'art of deduction' as taught by Sherlock Holmes, or the 'science of deduction.' In NLP (Neuro-Linguistic Programming), a person is trained to deduce quickly what kind of 'input' a person uses to appeal to his/her sensitivity. If somebody says 'see here,' then maybe they'll be interpreting information 'visually' and appealing to that meaning would have the most effect on them, while if they're saying 'listen to me,' you may want to try a more audible assault. 
 


 
You may also use specific tried and tested approaches to cater to a broad spectrum of people, as well as using the art of inference and NLP to classify information about an individual. Another is to build a 'relationship' by subtly mirroring the actions and expressions of others. One is to refer to facts and figures or to use sentiment in your argument, to try to get others behind you.
 


 
They're found most frequently in places we frequent. It may be our supervisor, our neighbor, a colleague, a customer, a distant relative, or an acquaintance. We are thinking about people who possess complete mastery of specific methods of deception and who use them to confuse us. 
 


 
Despite being right around us, these people are not easy to discover. Their characteristics and personality traits are not evident. No one carries a sign on their foreheads saying they are either a narcissist or a sociopath. How can we avoid them?
 


 
These people feed on someone else's suffering. So, it is not we who are weaker, helpless, or different. We are just another victim in their eyes. Another number. 
 


 
As a consequence of those circumstances in which we were involved, we all felt guilty or distrusted. And the worst thing about it is that we think so without knowing how or why. Yet the results are branding us, weakening our confidence, complicating our lives, and growing our insecurities. But how can they do that without actually realizing it to us?
 


 
What are manipulators looking for
 


 
There are several groups of deceptive people in general: sociopaths, narcissists, liars, and so-called emotional vampires. And it is more a practical question to consider them than a theoretical one. For this purpose, if you've been victims of them at times, it's easier for you to identify and precede them now. 
 


 
However, it can be said that deceptive people's aims are very straightforward, instrumental and that they follow a specific pattern. Most of them include: 
 




 
Cancel your willpower: they're trying to sow suspicions and want to bind you to their safety. 
 


 
Destroying your self-esteem: bringing a spoken word into the wheel of all you do or have done. We are not helpful, and they just want to point out the shortcomings. 
 


 
Passive-aggressive revenge: By avoiding you, they threaten you. They neglect you when you need them; it's enough to ask them something, to get them to stand up and not even speak to you. 
 


 
Prevent reality: they enjoy confounding people and creating misunderstandings and discussions. We step back after provoking a debate, loving the rants of others.
 




 
What are the psychological manipulation techniques?
 




 
Gaslighting
 




 
Gaslighting is one of the most subtle methods of deception. "It's never happened," "Imagine you," or "You're kidding?" These are some of the words that they use to manipulate and confuse our perception of reality, which makes us believe things have changed. 
 


 
This instills an intense sense of anxiety and uncertainty in the victims, to the point of causing them not to trust in themselves, their memory, their understanding, or their judgment.
 




 
Projection 
 




 
The manipulator transfers the negative characteristics to another person or shifts blame for his actions. This is being used heavily by narcissists and psychopaths, saying that the wickedness that surrounds them is not their fault but anyone else's.
 




 
Meaningless conversations
 




 
The conversation lasts ten minutes. Now is the time for you to leave the conversation. Manipulators say nonsensical things, offer illogical excuses, refer to past events, and throw smoke in the eyes ... 
 


 
We generate discord and misunderstanding. We are doing monologues, and they are trying to confuse you with their gab. Some advice? Get straight to the point and then better if you can leave after 5 minutes. Your feelings would be thankful.
 




 
Generalizations and denigrations
 




 
They make generic, vague, and abstract statements. They may seem intellectual. In reality, they are just elusive. Their conclusions are too general; their goal is to demean your e debilitate your opinions.
 


 
For example, "you always want to be right," "anything annoys you," "never once you agree." Keep calm. You can opt for irony, with a simple "thank you," or you can ignore them with a curt, "I think you're a little upset, we'll talk later."
 




 
Absurdity
 




 
Remember that they try to undermine your morals and cause you to question what you believe. They can put words you have never said in your mouth; they will make you think you have the superpower to "read your mind." But that's not the case, and they are just tricks and deceptions. You can help yourself with simulated defeat. Tell them they are right for them to believe it, but stick to your position. You can also respond to their blackmail with an "okay" or with laconic sentences.
 


 
The important thing is that you take your self-esteem out of their hands. Remember that they want to demoralize you so that they can control you. After making you weak, the task will be much easier.
 


 
Good mask
 


 
"Yes, but…". If you manage to buy a house, they will tell you that it is a pity that you do not yet have a place by the sea; if you are dressed more elegant than ever, they will tell you that another pair of earrings would have been better for you ... If you have written an impeccable report, they will tell you that the staple is not well fixed.
 


 
But don't let yourselves be influenced: you know what you are worth! Your successes and virtues are worth more than their manipulation techniques.  Don't give them any credibility and hang out with people who spend more time pointing out the positives and encouraging you; those who compliment you when you deserve them and who make constructive, non- destructive criticisms.
 




 
Positive reinforcement
 




 
Through positive reinforcement learning, behavioral performance is linked to achieving a good outcome. This does not have to be an entity, not even tangible; in many cases, food, liquids, a smile, a verbal message, or the presence of a friendly emotion are likely to be seen as favorable reinforcement. 
 


 
A father who congratulates his young daughter if she uses the toilet correctly promotes positive reinforcement learning; the same thing happens when a business offers cash incentives to its most successful workers, and also when we get a bag of potato chips after placing a coin into a retailer. 
 


 
The definition of "positive reinforcement" refers to the reward that accompanies the action, while positive reinforcement is the process that creates the connection the learner produces. Nevertheless, the words "reinforcement" and "reinforcement" are frequently used interchangeably, possibly because such a distinction does not exist in English. 
 


 
From a technical point of view, we can conclude that there is a favorable variance between a particular response and an appetizing stimulus in positive reinforcement. The knowledge of this risk motivates the subject to act to get the reward (or strengthening).
 




 
Negative reinforcement
 




 
In comparison to what occurs in the positive, the instrumental response in the negative reinforcement includes the absence of an aversive stimulus, i.e., an event or condition that motivates the subject to avoid or attempt not to come into contact with it. 
 


 
In behavioral terms, the reinforcement of this technique is the absence or non-appearance of the aversive stimulus. As we stated earlier, the word "negative" refers to the fact that the reward does not consist in obtaining an inspiration but in the absence thereof. 
 


 
This type of learning is divided into two processes: training to escape and to train to prevent it. The conduct precludes the presence of the aversive stimulus in the negative reinforcement of avoidance; for example, when an agoraphobic individual avoids using public transport to escape the fear this presupposes, it is reinforced negatively. 
 


 
The escape, on the contrary, is the disappearance of an aversive stimulus present before the subject executes the behavior. Some examples of negative escape reinforcement include an alarm clock that stops by pressing a button, a mother buying a request for her child to stop weeping, or taking a pain reliever to relieve pain.
 




 
Brainwashing
 




 
The concept of brainwashing is very close to that of 'mind control.' It is an idea without a strictly scientific basis that suggests that the will, thoughts, and other mental facts of individuals can be modified through techniques of persuasion that would introduce unwanted ideas into the psyche of the 'victim.' If we define the concept in this way, we see that it has a marked similarity. However, the term "suggest" is less ambitious. 
 


 
Although the idea of brainwashing is not entirely wrong, this popular concept has some scientific connotations which have led many experts to reject it in favor of more modest ones. The instrumental use of the term in legal proceedings has contributed to this, in particular, in child custody disputes. 
 


 
Mind control is also known as brainwashing, coercive persuasion, mind control, and mental manipulation. All these terms mean a process that a group or individual systematically uses to force someone to do what they want through the process of thinking of that person. In the majority of cases, these systematic processes are realized without the conscious knowledge of the person. 
 


 
There are times when we can use mind control over ourselves for a variety of reasons. Self-hypnosis is in this category. We use this kind of mind control, which is voluntary on our part, with our conscious consent, to reinforce a positive idea or to change our minds. 
 


 
However, this is not the same as the "mind control" phase, or it involves brainwashing. These phrases mean that a person's mind is systematically changed without knowing it, either in the agreement or even against his will. 
 


 
They are carried out through unethical, manipulative tactics, and other means, all designed to control the mind of someone. In such cases, they are realized in such a way that one person or group can take full control of the thoughts and actions of others. So, when the terms "mind control" and "brainwashing" are used, it is said that specific tactics are used to take control of another at the expense of the manipulated person. 
 


 
This is interesting because the idea of brainwashing falls under the category of social influence. This is because the concept of brainwashing is used to induce a victim's mental manipulation. This means that brainwashing and mind control are used to completely change the way someone thinks and perceives things concerning their beliefs in a particular social device. This is achieved by using various means to change the attitudes, behaviors, and thoughts of a person. The person is like a puppet who does everything the manipulator wants.
 


 
 
 













 
Psychological Manipulation In Communication
 


 
 
 


 
As we think in conversation about psychological manipulation, we see the first something happens: a relationship imbalance. To exploit means to use language for your gain, not just to dominate the other, but also to do harm. As the mechanism of this violence is set in motion by the most visceral emotions. 
 


 
Aldous Huxley said words could be much like X-rays. Used in a Machiavellian style, they will go through everything: self-esteem, integrity, and even the other's identity. Let's learn to see them arrive, to grasp this disruptive process a little more on a personal level.
 


 
1. Handling the facts
 


 
Any specialist in psychological communication deception is a great strategist who distorts the facts. He will still turn it to his benefit and may himself to blame all of us. You can avoid overuse and hold key details to clarify the facts further and ensure that the balance is still "your reality."
 


 
2. You will be told that it is impossible to talk to you
 


 
This prayer is simple, direct, and useful. If someone tells us, "it is impossible to talk to us," avoid precisely what they do not want: to talk about this problem. Therefore, it is customary to be told that we are too emotional, that we always take ourselves too seriously, and that lately, it has become tough to talk to us. These people project something they deeply lack: communication skills.
 


 
3. Intellectual harassment
 


 
The psychological and emotional manipulator also uses a wider communication strategy. This is intellectual harassment, which is only aimed at We bring a considerable amount of arguments, information, facts, and complex reasoning to convince ourselves of one thing through information exhaustion and overload.
 


 
4. Ultimatums and little time to decide
 


 
"If you don't accept what I propose, it's the end, and I'll give you until tomorrow so you can think about what I told you." This type of communication strategy is very painful and distressing. They put us back on the wall, which creates anxiety and plunges us into states of great emotional distress.
 


 
5. The person very often says our name during the conversation
 


 
When, in talk or discussion, someone pronounces our name almost continuously and exaggeratedly, they are using a very clever control mechanism. Doing so forces the other person to pay attention to you and, at the same time, plunges them into a constant state of intimidation.
 


 
6. Irony and black humor
 


 
Irony and the use of a sense of humor that humiliates, ridicules, and denigrates us is another sign of psychological manipulation in communication. The aggressor or manipulator tries to make us feel very small and impose on us his supposed psychological superiority.
 


 
7. The use of silence or evasions
 


 
I don't want to talk about it. This is not the time. Why are you talking about this now? … This type of dynamic is very recurrent in emotional relationships, especially if one of the parties lacks communication skills, commitment, and a sense of responsibility.
 


 
8. Feign ignorance: "I don't understand what you mean."
 


 
It is a very classic tactic. That which consists of making the one who does not understand what the other wants to say or do. This means playing with the other person, making him see that he complicates things too much; she brings the conversation to a level that does not make sense. We are faced with a classic passive-aggressive manipulative strategy that avoids taking responsibility and trying to hurt others.
 


 
9. We will let you speak first
 


 
The signs of psychological manipulation the most difficult to perceive in communication. It was found that of the person who tries to speak first. Thanks to this strategy, she manages to do several things. First, save time preparing your argument, and second, find our weak spots.
 


 
In addition, it is expected that, after listening to us, the emotional manipulator avoids exposing their ideas or opinions. You can limit yourself to asking us questions to exploring points that, far from being useful for a possible agreement, we seek to reveal our defects, guiding the problem on its ground and pretending to be moles, weak, or exaggerated all the time.
 


 
 
 













 
Emotional Blackmail and Manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional blackmail is a type of control that makes use of guilt, obligation, or fear. The goal is to get another person to behave according to interests that are in the blackmailer's favor. It's a way to exploit others 'will that's focused on triggering unpleasant feelings that the blackmailed person doesn't seem to be able to get out of unless he does what the blackmailer wants.
 


 
Emotional blackmail is a type of control that uses guilt, obligation, and fear to get someone else to be in the interests of the blackmailer. One way of manipulating others 'will is to trigger unpleasant feelings, which the blackmailed individual can't seem to get out of unless he does what the blackmailer wants. 
 


 
Emotional coercion infiltrates our relationships, which often makes it hard to decide if we're being blackmailed or blackmailers. It is usually performed unconsciously, and deception is more comfortable to detect. Phrases like "Oh, what you do? "It's up to you," "If you loved me, you wouldn't," are examples of how seemingly innocent messages can be used with the intention of putting fear in the other person if they don't cede to the wishes of the blackmailer. 
 


 
Usually, we associate deceit with Machiavellian, twisted, greedy men. In reality, though, we all resort to some kind of emotional blackmail. Whenever a person plays the role of a manipulator, and when he attempts to manipulate what another person does or does, he asks for something. He does not offer a choice alternative or trigger another's self-esteem. In a relationship, the object of emotional manipulation often is to gain control.
 


 
We have all been involved in a similar siege at some time, either as victims or as executioners. But, why do we manipulate or let them use us?
 


 
 
 


 
Signs of Emotional Blackmail
 


 
1. Threats to people or things dear to the victim
 


 
Emotional blackmail always includes risk, but only the threat object can be different: it is a physical object (person or object), as well as something more abstract, like a close relationship or reputation at work. The victim should feel that she should obey the blackmailer so as not to harm herself and her relatives.
 


 
2. Threats to the victim herself
 


 
Although direct blackmail is less common, it is also a clear sign. A blackmailer may threaten physical violence for not fulfilling his demands directly to the victim. For such an aggressor to achieve the goal, he must know precisely what the victim is afraid of. Usually, these are deep fears: the fear of separation, loneliness, humiliation, and failure. Of course, physical violence is unlikely to happen. However, it is a powerful manipulative means of control and pressure.
 


 
3. Threats to oneself
 


 
Emotional blackmailers (partners, parents, relatives) may use different tactics and threaten to harm themselves. It may seem that you have no choice but to do what a person requires to avoid tragedy, but it’s better to protect yourself and protect yourself. The threat of harming oneself (up to suicide) is a way to gain control over the situation and force the victim to fulfill the requirements, knowing that the victim loves the blackmailer and does not wish him harm.
 


 
4. Provoking guilt for blackmail and manipulation
 


 
Often, an emotional blackmailer will use threats in conjunction with provoking feelings of guilt to convince a person to succumb to his demands. The risk is designed to make the victim feel guilty that the manipulator is supposedly ill. For example, a blackmailer may justify why he stole money from a victim, appealing to her conscience and complaining about his problems. His task is to make you feel guilty for your inattention and insensitivity to his needs and his situation.
 


 
When you know what emotional blackmail is and clearly define it, you can already deal with it. There are some key points that you should always remember if you are already dealing with a person who uses such blackmail as a manipulation tool.
 


 
5. Do not give in to requirements
 


 
Even if the situation is somewhat threatening, fulfilling the demands of the blackmailer only stimulate him, and the problem only worsens. Be firm and steady and refuse to do what the manipulator wants, especially if his threat is violence against himself or others.
 


 
6. Remember that people do not blackmail those they love
 


 
This can help you ignore the situation and facilitate the refusal to comply with his requirements. Just admit to yourself that a loving person will never behave this way and do this to you.
 


 
 
 













 
How to Avoid Emotional Manipulation and Cope with Manipulation?
 


 
 
 


 
1. There is no point in trying to be honest with an emotional manipulator.
 


 
You make a point, and that's going to get twisted. Example: I'm furious you've forgotten my birthday. Answer: "It makes me sad that you think I'm missing your birthday, I'd have to tell you how hard my life is right now, but you see, I didn't want to interrupt you. But you're right, and I'd have to put aside all that pain (don't be shocked to see real tears at this point) and concentrate on your birthday. But there isn't much you can say because his words are actual. Then all of a sudden, you hold your anxieties high! In any case, don't capitulate if you get this feeling! Do not heed; do not accept an apology if you believe they are not sincere. When you get the feeling, it's because you certainly are right. Trust your judgment when it comes to a master singer. Rely on your senses. If the emotional manipulator is significant, he will add it to his list of work-related items and tell you this stuff regularly.
 


 
2. An emotional manipulator gives the image of someone who is at the service of others.
 


 
They'll almost always agree if you tell them to do anything, they'll even volunteer before you can ask them something. Then when you say "yes, thank you," they make a lot of sighs or signals that let you know they just don't want to do this service. When you tell them, you believe they don't seem to want to do that; they'll return the situation by telling you, "of course," because you're not fair to think that way. 
 


 
It's sort of a tactic, and in this game, the emotional manipulators are powerful. When a manipulator says YES, rule number two; keep them responsible for their commitments; Do not tolerate sighs and subtleties, because you just have to move on and leave them in their delirium if they don't want to do whatever they say to you.
 


 
3. A reversal, say one thing and later make sure they did not tell you.
 


 
If you find that you are in a relationship where you have understood that you should start saving a diary of everything that has been said, because you begin to ask yourself questions about your mental health, you are experiencing emotional manipulation. An emotional manipulator is an expert at reversing the situation, rationalizing, justifying, and explaining things. They can lie so well that you can sit down and look in the dark, and they will say it's white, and they will argue in such a way that you will begin to doubt yourself. Over time, it's so insidious and tiring that it can change your sense of reality.
 


 
Emotional manipulation is VERY dangerous! An emotional manipulator will be confused if you start having a journal and a pen on you to take notes during your conversations. Feel calm to let them know that you do not have all your head right now and that you do not want to forget his sweet words. The craziest thing is getting there, which is why you should seriously think about getting out of this kind of unhealthy game. If you have to pack around with a notepad to protect yourself, it's time to start asking the right questions!
 


 
4. Guilt. Emotional manipulators are excellent propagators of responsibility.
 


 
You will make you feel bad for talking or not talking enough, being emotional or not being emotional enough, giving and being cared for, or targeting it. All is a guilty game with an emotional manipulator. Emotional manipulators never freely express their wishes or desires; they get what they want through emotional manipulation. Guilt is heavy. Many people are trained enough to do something to reduce this sense of remorse. Sympathy's another strong emotion. 
 


 
An emotional manipulator is a great target. It conveys a deep feeling that makes us love, care, and nurture it. Emotional manipulators rarely fight themselves and stop dirty work. The craziest thing is that when you do it for them (which they can never ask directly), they can turn around and say they don't want it, and they don't expect it from you! Try not to fight wars or do the dirty work for them. Here's a sentence you can say, "I have every faith in your ability to solve this question, I know you can do it," write down their response and remember their reaction.
 


 
5. Emotional manipulators make low blows.
 


 
We don't face issues directly. They'll talk behind your back, and finally place you in a position to tell you what they can't tell you about themselves. They're passive-aggressive, meaning they're finding subtle ways to let you know they're not content, intrepid. They will tell you what you think about building confidence. Example: "Of course, my heart, I help you. But the day before the test, he invites his buddies to play poker when you're sitting at the table studying. At that moment, you hear the cries of kids weeping, the television that sounds, and the dog barking! And you wonder where the so-called" My Heart "has gone ... Can you react to such a comment that you're likely to hear like," You can't hope to hear it?
 


 
6. If, by any chance, you have a headache, and emotional manipulator will have a brain tumor!
 


 
Whatever situation you've encountered or are experiencing, the emotional manipulator either encountered it worse or is experiencing it now. After a while, remaining emotionally linked to an emotional manipulator is hard because they have a way to turn conversations around and concentrate on themselves. When you point them out, they'll probably get angry or irritable by telling you you're greedy and saying you're just focusing on you anyway. But if you know, that isn't the case, and you'll always have to explain yourself. It doesn't matter, trust your instincts, and withdraw!
 


 
 
 













 
How Do You Understand and Stop Your Partner's Emotional Manipulation?
 


 
 
 


 
Emotions are the dimensions that make us human, incredible sensations that can range from the quietest happiness to the bleakest sadness. We are rarely more vulnerable when we are in love. At this point, it is more challenging to realize the famous emotional manipulation by our partner.
 


 
You may be surprised, but emotional manipulation is not so easy to identify. But why? Because we are talking about this complex and intense dimension, that is love.
 


 
Many people confuse, for example, “domination” with love: “my mate is jealous because he likes me” … It is undoubtedly one of the most common phrases and one that brings more problems in the long run. But let's dig deeper into the topic.
 


 
1. To love is not to possess
 


 
There are many couples who usually do everything together. Going out, traveling… This is very positive and even necessary, but only good when there is no “control.”
 


 
Some, for example, disagree with their partner leaving home alone, having their own friendships, and even more, having their work and professional life.
 


 
We have to go carefully. Love does not show itself by controlling a person, let alone forbidding him to do anything.
 


 
2. The need to take care of our self-esteem
 


 
Emotional manipulation is directly linked to our self-esteem. In a relationship, we do everything for the other person, love him or her above anything else, and we would do everything for them.
 


 
This is all sincere and good, but we also have to know how to protect ourselves.
 


 
If your partner values
 
your own needs more than yours and acts selfishly, day by day, you will suffer the effects and feel worse.
 


 
Most people conceive of love as an exchange of affection and desires, where there is a balance between what we give and what we receive.
 


 
If we are the ones who give everything, we will feel empty, manipulated, and with very low self-esteem, which will make it very difficult to find happiness in everyday things.
 


 
3. When we gradually lose our identity
 


 
It may be that before you entered into a relationship, you were part of a social circle that made you happy, and you had vital projects that you tried to reach day by day.
 


 
But sometimes we fall in love with those we should not, all because, on many occasions, it is something we cannot master, which occurs suddenly, and we fall into a carousel of intense emotions.
 


 
Although there are people who are not mature enough to be in a healthy relationship, they, instead of making us happy and helping us grow as a couple, are taking away our identity.
 


 
 
 













 
Behavioral and Character Traits of the Manipulators
 


 
 
 


 
Throughout your life, you will encounter manipulative people who pursue your selfish purposes, for whom they have no qualms about causing harm to you.
 


 
Generally, manipulative people have no qualms or compassion when they find a new victim for their plans since they are individuals dedicated to exploiting other people's weaknesses to achieve their benefit, regardless of what they have to do for it.
 


 
The manipulative method used in his approach focuses on emotional blackmail, involving people with false words and deeds. In this way, their victims trust and yield to the supposed good intention of this manipulative mind, which pretends to feel sympathy and appreciation for others.
 


 
Hence the danger posed by manipulative people to anyone's life, as for them, there is no moral limit or obstacle between their goal and themselves. This allows them to easily crush, use, and dispose of people affected by the way they act.
 


 
Despite knowing the threat that manipulative people pose in their life, it is quite challenging to differentiate them into a group of acquaintances or coworkers since you can even fall victim to someone without realizing it until you are affected by their evil influence.
 


 
That is why we present five typical characteristics of a manipulator to help you identify and recognize this type of predator that lurks in your social circles.
 


 
Five common traits in manipulative people
 


 
Innate speakers
 


 
Manipulative people demand their best speech skills to convince their victims of their false good intentions to deal with the gift of speech effectively.
 


 
They can transform any situation they find themselves in to convince others of their innocence. Coming to create a false image in the minds of those who fall for their mind games.
 


 
They maintain excessive control over the situation, always obtaining the most significant benefit in exchange for others' hard work. His word tends to confuse and manipulate his victims efficiently, to the point of remaining unaware of a bad way of acting.
 


 
Manipulative people are greedy.
 


 
Manipulators do not pursue a simple goal that they can achieve on their own; on the contrary, and they are always looking for a more significant objective that continuously compresses their victims.
 


 
The hunger for power and control is also a reflection of the great ego that manipulative people tend to possess—those who over-rely on their manipulation to the point of feeling invincible, lest they set future limits.
 


 
They tend to assume the role of the victim.
 


 
Being a victim implies significant vulnerability and innocence, so it is the preferential role of manipulative people. Since people around you never think that the victim is the victim.
 


 
In this way, they manipulate other people emotionally, playing with their feelings. Therefore, confrontation with a manipulator can make you believe that he is the victim, and you are the aggressor.
 


 
Create a false image of the need
 


 
Righteousness is the emotion that manipulative people tend to hold on to. To do this, they use an image of weakness and fragility, to which their victims fall easily, wanting to help someone in need.
 


 
After deceiving people with their false need, a manipulator makes his victims feel responsible for their health, food, money, and any other benefits they can obtain from that individual.
 


 
Manipulative people always lie.
 


 
Inevitably, lying is part of any manipulator's repertoire. They deal with this ability naturally, without showing doubts or any characteristic that allows their victims to detect the truth behind their false facade.
 


 
Manipulative people are masters of lies, to the point of lying in any aspect of their lives, regardless of whether it is minimal or essential. Because, through deception, they can approach the goal they are pursuing.
 


 
For lack of a moral compass, there is no limit to the lies of a manipulator. For him, lies are part of the tools he needs to achieve his goal, regardless of who causes harm.
 


 













 
CHAPTER FOUR
 


 
Covert Emotional Manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
In our gut, we may have an awkward feeling that does not suit the words of the manipulator or feel stuck in agreeing to a proposal. Most people respond in ways that exacerbate violence or play into the abuser's hands and feel small and guilty, but withdraw and permit unacceptable conduct. If you had a deceptive parent, recognizing in a partner may be more difficult because it is familiar.
 


 
Ancient wisdom is essential when dealing with a manipulator to "know your opponent" Being able to spot those secret arrows helps you to respond to subtle exploitation strategically. Comprising what they are up to inspire you.
 


 
When people act passively-aggressively, implicit aggression is what tends to be passive or defensive. The degree to which their action is conscious or unconscious is debatable.
 


 
No matter to the survivor. The impact is similar. Being too empathetic places you in danger of being mistreated over and over again. They become violent when someone is threatening you directly or covertly. Psychologist George Simon claims that these secret manipulators consciously say and do stuff for power and influence to get what they want.
 


 
He insists that for character-logically impaired individuals, such as sociopaths and narcissists, and even individuals with a borderline personality disorder, their strategies are not unconscious in the way defensive mechanisms usually work. But their action becomes so ordinary that it is reflexive over time. They are not talking about it, but they are still aware of it.
 


 
 
 













 
Signs of Emotional Manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation is not always obvious… Manipulators can be very good at what they do and go unnoticed. So how to identify such a situation? Read the text and check out eight signs of emotional manipulation
 




 
Manipulate by words
 




 
A handler can say things in a way that seems genuine and honest. They are adept at hiding their true intentions. For example, you might express anger at them for missing a birthday / special occasion, and they respond to something like, "wow, you make me very sad to think that I would forget your birthday." Or, "Wow, I lie because you make me."
 


 
It is widespread for them to use words to make you feel guilty for something that you are not to blame. It can be a simple matter of forgetting your birthday and stopping even the most severe aggressions.
 




 
Distort facts
 




 
Another form of manipulation is when they distort what happened or what you said. Use phrases out of context or retell a fact in their view. And some are so good that they can make you believe that. Usually, they justify their bad behavior and blame you.
 




 
They are great at making you feel guilty.
 




 
Guilt is one of the great weapons of emotional manipulation. It is always you. You stopped talking or talked too much. You worry too much, or you don't care. You're too careful or sloppy… Anyway, the handler will always try to convince you that it's your fault for the bad behavior. And they are great at putting themselves in the victim position.
 




 
Minimize Your Problems
 




 
Emotional manipulators do not care about their problems. Whenever you say something like “wow, I have a migraine,” they will find a way to convince you that they have a much worse problem. They will take your lines and make you feel guilty for saying anything, as their problems are so much worse, their work is more stressful, their lives are harder… or they will try to make you believe that.
 




 
Passive-Aggressive
 




 
Passive-aggressive behavior is widespread in emotional manipulation. They often say good things to you but superficial. Then they will depreciate you, make up some problems, messing up your psychological health. Or they will simply be silent out of nowhere, making him even more guilty, wanting to find out what he "did wrong."
 




 
Energetic Vampires
 




 
Emotional manipulators have a dark cloud that follows them wherever they go. When they enter the room, the cloud envelops everyone, so attention falls to them. Gradually we feel weakened. They are toxic and will always try to take away our joy. The best thing we can do is walk away.
 




 
Aggression
 




 
Handlers often use aggressive language and actions to intimidate you. If they realize that you do not confront them, they will make you feel uncomfortable, and therefore they will get what they want easily. Aggressions tend to get worse and worse and may escalate into abuse as they "advance" in their form of emotional manipulation.
 


 
 
 













 
How to deal with an emotional manipulator?
 


 
 
 




 
Try to Understand This Person's Need for Acceptance
 




 
If the person acting in a manipulative manner is a member of the family or someone with whom you believe the relationship should be maintained and helped, try to analyses their attitudes and understand the origin. It can be insecurity, and it can be a lack of self-esteem. Each of these feelings is a sign of a kind of need, and you can help it, demonstrating that this gap can be filled without depending on, interiorizing, or manipulating others.
 


 
It is worth remembering that it is essential to stop giving in to blackmail and attempts at manipulation if you intend to help. Loving is also knowing how to say no when necessary, and being firm to have a healthy relationship, be it of love, friendship, work, or family, is essential. Dialogue is a crucial thing to seek understanding, too.
 




 
Seek Self-Knowledge and Understand Your Needs
 




 
Self-knowledge is the solution to most of the issues we may have concerning our feelings. A manipulative situation also constitutes a relationship of dependence between both parties. If you tend to get carried away by somebody is blackmail, it is because, perhaps, you also need acceptance and feel loved that makes you give in to the other's will, even without wishing to.
 


 
Knowing your feelings will help you to understand why you tend to give in to manipulation. You will be able to stand firm through this understanding and come to the conclusion that you do not need to act against your convictions and wishes just to be accepted by someone. By demonstrating security over what you want, the manipulative person will see he no longer has power over you.
 




 
When is it best to walk away?
 




 
There are cases where the best thing to do is move away, preventing the manipulative individual from continuing to make you feel ever more dependent and inferior. This attitude is necessary, mainly in abusive-type amorous relationships, in which the other needs to remain in control of the situation and, for this, emotionally and, in the most severe cases, even physically mistreat their partner.
 


 
Breaking a relationship can be very delicate, but you need to recover your freedom and individuality in many cases. Remember always that your happiness and safety must come first, and that it may not be the best choice to sacrifice just to stay with someone who uses harmful devices like blackmail.
 


 
Analyze the relationship as a whole and ponder how it usually makes you feel most of the time. That way, you can find the answer to how you should be acting. And if you already know what to do, encourage yourself, and make your physical and mental well-being and happiness a priority.
 


 
A relationship, whether it is loving or not, should be based upon respect for the individualities and desires of each individual. It is essential that you know your feelings and wishes so that when someone tries to manipulate you, you can identify and lead you to act differently than you think. Watch this out, empower yourself, and take control of your life!
 


 
 
 













 
Emotional blackmail and manipulation in relationships
 


 
 
 


 
1. Does the partner laugh at your feelings, consider them insignificant?
 


 
Emotional manipulators care exclusively about their feelings and needs. And if you try to start an open and honest conversation with them about those moments when you feel underestimated or when it hurts you, your interlocutor will try to “minimize” this conversation as soon as possible. He will argue that you are acting silly, childish, or, say, overreacting to everything.
 


 
Psychotherapist Petty Blue Hayes claims that “their calm and external rationality, combined with your “inflated” state and sensitivity in such situations, often make you doubt yourself and your feelings. And over time, you begin to wonder if they are right.”
 


 
An emotional manipulator will never apologize to you for anything ... Instead, he will blame you for this situation. He will try to make you doubt your own emotions.
 


 
So, if you start to catch yourself on the fact that at the suggestion of a partner, you ask yourself over and over that maybe he’s right and you are really too sensitive or take everything too close to your heart ... This may mean that it’s time for you to leave this relationship is behind.
 


 
2. Does a partner humiliate you?
 


 
If a partner constantly insults you or laughs at you in public, then the likelihood that he or she is an emotional manipulator is very high. Such people take advantage of your self-doubt to get what you want, but their tactics are not always obvious. Outwardly, it may seem to your friends and relatives that the partner is merely joking with you and that you do not mind, although you want to scream in pain from a scream.
 


 
For example, an emotional manipulator, knowing that you are worried about gaining a little extra weight lately, may begin to shame with your friends that you ate three slices of pizza, shaking your head sympathetically and saying something like: "Yes, dear, you have to change clothes from the tents."
 


 
RESEARCHERS
 
point out that, unfortunately, many women who were raised in families where their parents constantly humiliated them are used to similar behavior from close people. Moreover, they even consider it quite normal. Therefore, we must clearly draw a line for ourselves between what is permissible and what is not.
 


 
3. Does the partner accuse you of your bad deeds or bad behavior?
 


 
An emotional manipulator will never accept responsibility for his actions. Instead, he will try to dodge in such a way as to put all the blame on you and prove that his actions were justified. An emotional manipulator always makes his partner doubt the veracity of his feelings and the justification of resentment.
 


 
For example, a simple reminder to a partner that he promised to pay utility bills can cause a flurry of reproaches and accusations in your direction. Like, he has recently become exhausted at work, that he simply does not have time for all kinds of little things, and that you could do it yourself ... And all this instead of recognizing that he forgot about his promise and correcting everything.
 


 
4. Does the partner refuse to explain his actions?
 


 
Emotional manipulators often use phrases like “you still won’t understand,” because they don’t want to establish full, real communication with you.
 


 
They try to assert themselves, to put themselves above you, claiming that their thoughts and feelings are so complex that you cannot even fully understand them.
 


 
As a result, you almost always expect your partner to get angry because you did not do something that you did not even know about.
 


 
5. Does he try to make himself the most miserable and offended?
 


 
If you tell such a partner that you had a bad day at work, then instead of comforting, he will immediately begin to convince that your day was still nothing, but he had a real nightmare.
 


 
In a word, your feelings again turn out to be depreciated, and you begin to feel guilty for having started talking about your problems.
 


 
6. A partner is “corrected” only when you understand that you have enough?
 


 
Emotional manipulators feel as if by some sixth sense when you find yourself almost ready to give up and leave them.
 


 
Just when you are already brave enough to say goodbye, your partner turns into kindness, charm, and courtesy, delighting your hearing with something very similar to an apology ... But if you have mercy and forgive him, the relationship is right there, beginning to return to the knurled track.
 


 
 
 













 
Emotional Manipulation in The Workplace
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation is rampant in many workplaces. A manipulator's primary goal is to influence and control the action and behavior of others. They use tactics such as factual distortion, lying, hidden threats, and discrediting others. Manipulative people will detect your weaknesses and use them against you. To avoid being exploited, proactive steps need to be taken to address the situation.
 


 
Here are some tips for dealing with emotional manipulation at work:
 


 
1. Stay away
 


 
The manipulator's actions typically differ depending on the situation they are in. For instance, a manipulator may talk rudely to someone and behave politically in the next moment. It is advisable to stay away from them when you sometimes see these extremes in a person. Do not communicate with this individual unless necessary. This defends you from being abused.
 


 
2. Know your rights
 


 
Knowing your rights is very important when handling a manipulative individual. Also, you should be ready to defend yourself when you feel your rights are being violated. Here are some of your fundamental workplace rights:
 




 
The right to express opinions, feelings, and wishes
 


 
The right to respect
 


 
The right to say "no."
 


 
The right to have your priorities
 


 
The right to protect yourself from emotional, mental and physical harm
 




 
Emotional manipulators will try to violate your rights to take advantage of you. Take control, and don't let anyone cross your borders.
 


 
3. Ask questions
 


 
An essential tactic of manipulators is the unreasonable request on your part. They will then expect you to do whatever it takes to meet your needs. When you hear such requests, you have to counter them with probing questions that the manipulator has to answer. For example, you can ask:
 




 
Is what you are asking, right?
 


 
Is it a request or an order?
 


 
Is my opinion on this important?
 


 
How can I benefit from this?
 


 
Do you seriously expect me to (repeat the request)?
 




 
Asking such questions will cause the manipulator to question their motives. As a result, some are likely to withdraw. However, others will simply ignore your questions and continue to make requests. In this case, you can apply any other tactics.
 


 
4. Buy time
 


 
Most manipulators will want you to respond to their requests immediately. This is a tactic commonly used by sellers when trying to close a sale. However, don't succumb to the pressure to respond immediately. Instead, find a way to buy time and withdraw from the person. You can just say, "I'll think about it." They are powerful words that will allow you to escape and evaluate the situation.
 


 
5. Learn to say "no."
 


 
When it comes to communication, knowing when and how to say "no" is very important. When said diplomatically, it allows you to defend your rights by maintaining good working relationships with your colleagues. If someone is unwilling to take "no" for an answer, it is necessary to mention the consequences of violating their rights. For example, you could threaten to report the matter to your supervisor.
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER FIVE
 


 
Understanding Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Body language has significantly affected interpersonal relationships. And basic hand motions can be interpreted in various ways. Other body movements and facial expressions can alter a hand gesture to complicate matters further. And it may not be as straightforward as body language.
 


 
Individuals still do not know it, but their body movements are an indicator of unwanted actions that can be transmitted to others. Since different personality types show different behaviors, you need to be aware of how you travel, because the behaviors you demonstrate can judge you many times.
 


 
It is important to note that not only the movements we call body language can tell us a lot about other people, but these physical manifestations can also tell us something about ourselves. Since our attitude, body language can be described as a mirror to the soul, and physical movements usually represent what we feel. Actually, we are going to tell us what emotions we feel.
 


 
The fascinating thing about non-verbal communication is our product of physiology, environment, and culture. Maybe we can warn others about our attitudes. We may inherit specific characteristics that affect how we project ourselves to others and depending on our relationships, and we continue to use different types of nonverbal communication. For example, you can present yourself to work with colleagues differently from family members. Maybe because the comfort zone changes, you are more vigilant in different circumstances, influencing your response.
 


 
You do not show yourself to others visually. Although some movements are intended, in nature, when we interact with others, many of the body's responses seem more unconscious. Unfortunately, often implicit body language gives us information that we do not want others to know about us. There are some physical indicators that can provide us with hints or feelings about our emotional state.
 


 
We observe and process others' body language, especially when talking. Facial and hand motions contribute to the discussion. If we were not aware of this, another person's words might not have the same effect.
 


 
One way to more effectively perceive other signals is to become more self-aware. Heed expressions and emotions. Try to see the link between your non-verbal communication and words to convey a feeling. By learning to read your own body language, you begin to understand your interactions with others.
 


 
Children are a prime example of unconscious body language. Young children sometimes express their feelings non-verbally, even after learning vocabulary. Usually, you can tell a child if she is frustrated or sad. Toddlers and preschoolers tend to express themselves verbally. Likewise, babies and kids understand our body language very well.
 


 
Interestingly enough, the movements that children use to express their needs will eventually help their brains develop, leading to later verbal communication. From the outset, children pay attention to an adult's face while talking to them. Why did they know that? Genetics is the underlying explanation, so maybe eyes are portals of the soul!
 


 
 
 













 
What Is Body Language
 
 


 
 
 


 
Humans have the ability to interact. It can happen in unobtrusive and straightforward ways. We speak, we write. We can also communicate without using words, though. When words are used to express information, this nonverbal contact addresses our relationships. Perhaps more relevant than getting the message across. We're meta-communicating about contact!
 


 
If words just don't do it, if we speak to an individual, we also need to make clear how to interpret our message material. The way we do this speaks of this person's relationship, or at least the way we think about this other. Sounds can't do that. Showing is better than thinking about our feelings. Our words' meaning is produced through body language. In the Saussurian context, this language is used for nonverbal communication. We do have it. We don't even care about using it often. Touching someone in conversation means something completely different from not touching our partner in dialogue. Communicating without using non-verbal words is just not feasible-writing is the only exception.
 


 
Body language is a form of non-verbal communication, where the body "speaks" through gestures, facial expressions, and postures.
 


 
Body language appeared long before verbal language, and even today, it represents one of the most basic forms of communication for human beings. Experts say that approximately 93% of all human communication is non-verbal. 55% of the communication is done without the use of words; that is, it is related to postures, facial expressions, and gestures. Loudness and vocalization (tone of voice, rhythm, and speed of speech) are also essential and correspond to 38% of messages transmitted.
 


 
The posture of the arms, legs, head, and facial expression can convey various feelings. For example, if a person does not maintain eye contact while someone else is talking to them, it may mean that they are not interested in the conversation or the person. On the other hand, when a person has his arms crossed, this posture can be considered defensive, revealing insecurity. The distance between the speaker and the speaker can also indicate tension between the two.
 


 
Social psychologist Amy Cuddy says that our posture can change not only the opinion of others about us but also influences our view of ourselves. Cuddy also identifies powerful and non-powerful attitudes, which can have a positive or negative impact on our self-esteem. An appropriate posture can contribute to several scenarios, such as job interviews, for example.
 


 
Developing
 


 
Sometimes a text is used instead of a word or a sentence, or something is drawn with the hands to complement what is said orally. For example, the signal of what is said goes between quotation marks are made with the index and middle fingers of both hands. For example: to indicate late arrival, the clock is tapped. It belongs to the category of paralanguages, which describe all forms of non-verbal human communication. This includes the most subtle and unconscious movements, including winking and slight eyebrow movements. Also, body language can consist of the use of facial expressions and posture. 
 


 
Paralanguage (including body language) has been extensively studied in social psychology. In everyday discourse and popular psychology, the term is often applied to body language considered involuntary. However, the difference between what is deemed to be voluntary and involuntary body language is often controversial. For example, a smile can be triggered consciously or unconsciously.
 


 
Body posture
 


 
Body posture is the posture of the body or its parts about a reference system, either the orientation of an element of the body with another aspect or with the body as a whole, or its relationship with another person.
 


 
Within the body language, one talks about open or closed postures. The first ones are those postures where there are no barriers such as arms or legs between one interlocutor and others, otherwise in closed postures, where for example, crossed arms are used to isolate or protect the body (unconsciously in many cases). Furthermore, it is essential to consider the ideal positions to speak according to the point, for example:
 




 
In competitive situations: face to face
 


 
To help or cooperate: next door
 


 
To chat: at a right angle
 




 
Head posture
 




 
Side to side movements: denial.
 


 
Up and down movements: assent.
 


 
Above: neutral or evaluation.
 


 
Laterally tilted: interest.
 


 
Tilt down: disapproval, negative attitude.
 




 
Arms pose
 




 
Standard crossing: defensive posture, can also mean insecurity.
 


 
Crossing them while keeping your fists closed indicates a sign of defense and hostility.
 


 
Crossing your arms holding your arms is a sign of restriction.
 




 
Leg pose
 




 
Standard crossing: defensive attitude.
 


 
Cross in 4 (“in Indian”): competition, discussion.
 


 
Cross while standing: discomfort, tension.
 


 
Cross the ankles: used to conceal a negative attitude
.
 




 
Important considerations
 


 
If you lean too much towards the other person, you will be invading their personal space, and this should not be done when there is still not much confidence, and you will appear too aggressive.
 


 
Arms crossed are a sign. Keeping your arms crossed is a sign of withdrawal; it means that the person does not want to be intimate, that they do not feel confident, or that they are not entirely well.
 


 
A shrunken posture means boredom.
 


 
Maintaining a relaxed position with slightly open arms and legs demonstrates self-confidence and security.
 


 
Getting closer than you should or a rigid body can demonstrate aggressiveness.
 


 
Showing yourself upright is the best thing for when you want to demonstrate security, courage, and importance in what you do.
 


 
Hands-on the waist: defiance, aggressiveness.
 


 
Thumbs on the waist or pockets: manhood.
 


 
Finger-pointing: challenge.
 


 
The gestures
 


 
A gesture is a form of non-verbal communication executed with some part of the body and produced by the movement of the joints and muscles of the arms, hands, and head.
 


 
The language of gestures allows a variety of feelings and thoughts to be expressed, from contempt and hostility to approval and affection. Virtually all people use gestures and body language in addition to words when they speak. There are ethnic groups and specific communication languages
 
that use many more gestures than the average. Certain types of gestures can be considered culturally acceptable or not, depending on the place and context in which they are performed. Five categories of gestures are distinguished, proposed by Paul Ekman and Wallace Friesen:
 




 
Emblematic gestures or emblems:
 they are signals emitted intentionally and that everyone knows their meaning. (thumb raised)
 


 
Illustrative or illustrative gestures:
 gestures that accompany verbal communication to clarify or emphasize what is said, to impersonate a word in a difficult situation, etc. They are used intentionally. These gestures are instrumental in speeches and when speaking in public.
 


 
Regulatory or regulatory gestures of interaction:
 with them, communication is synchronized or regulated, and the channel does not disappear. They are used to take over in conversation, to start and end the interaction, to give way to speak... (shake hands).
 


 
Gestures that express emotional states or displays of affection:
 this type of gesture reflects the emotional state of the person and is the emotional result of the moment. As an example, we can mention gestures that express anxiety or tension, grimaces of pain, triumph, joy, etc. 
 


 
Adaptation or adapting gestures:
 these are gestures that are used to manage emotions that are not wanted to be expressed. Here you can distinguish signs directed at oneself (such as pinching oneself), directed towards objects (pen, pencil, cigar, etc.), and those directed towards other people (such as protecting another person). Adapters can also be unconscious; very clear examples are biting a fingernail or sucking a finger, very common in young children.
 




 
Facial expression
 


 
With the facial expression in many moods and emotions are expressed. It is used to regulate interaction and to reinforce or emphasize the content of the message addressed to the recipient. The facial expression is used to describe the mood, indicate attention, show disgust, joke, blame, reinforce verbal communication, etc. Paul Ekman developed a method to decipher facial expressions while working with Wallace Friesen and Silvan Tomkins. It is a kind of atlas of the face that is called FAST (Facial Affect Scoring Technique). FAST classifies images using photographs (not verbal descriptions) and dividing the face into three areas: the forehead and eyebrows, the eyes, and the rest of the face, that is, the nose, cheeks, mouth, and chin.
 


 
The look
 


 
The gaze is studied separately for its importance, although it is part of the facial expression. The gaze fulfills a series of functions:
 




 
The regulation of the communicative act.
 


 
Source of information.
 


 
Express emotions.
 


 
Communicate the nature of interpersonal relationships.
 




 
The study of the gaze contemplates different aspects, among the most important of which we can mention: the dilation of the pupils, eye contact, the act of blinking, and the way of looking:
 




 
The dilation of the pupils indicates interest and attractiveness, and they dilate when something interesting is seen.
 


 
The number of times you blink per minute is related to calm and nervousness. If you blink a lot, it is a symbol of nervousness and restlessness, and the less you blink, the calmer you will be.
 


 
Eye contact consists of the gaze that one person directs to the gaze of the other. Here we must mention the frequency with which we look at the other person and the maintenance of eye contact.
 


 
The way of looking is one of the most relevant behaviors to distinguish high-status, dominant, and powerful people from low-status people who are not powerful.
 




 
The smile
 


 
Although the smile is included or can be included in the facial expression, it deserves to be explained in detail. It is used to express happiness, joy, or sympathy. The smile can even be used to make situations more bearable. It can have a therapeutic effect on pessimistic or depressed people.
 




 
Simple smile:
 with this type of smile, an insecure, doubtful message of lack of confidence is transmitted. It should be avoided if you want to give an impression of firmness and confidence. 
 


 
Simple smile of high intensity:
 this smile occurs with a more pronounced separation of the corners of the mouth, and this rise more. A small part of the upper teeth can be seen. It transmits confidence and heat.
 


 
Upper Smile:
 The upper lip retracts so that almost or all of the teeth can be seen. A message of some satisfaction is transmitted by seeing someone.
 


 
Superior smile of high intensity:
 it opens the mouth more, and the teeth are seen more. A light closure of the eyes usually accompanies it. Apart from conveying happiness, it is often used to say a happy question or to represent a funny surprise. It is often used deceptively; for this reason, care must be taken. 
 


 
Wide smile:
 it is one in which the gaze narrows slightly. The upper and lower teeth are fully exposed. This type of smile expresses the highest intensity of joy, happiness, and pleasure. 
 


 
Laughter:
 it is the one that goes beyond the broad one. It is the most contagious and occurs in a group of people.
 




 
Importance of Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
The human being can always communicate because even when not utter words, transmit something to others through your body presence, your physical appearance, your facial features, your dress, your posture ... Body language has more impact still in the receiver that words because an image has a lot of power, and through the sense of sight, a person captures a lot of information from another in a single visual hit.
 


 
The body language shows the gestural ability of a human being. Within the different parts of the body, it should be noted that the face has a tremendous expressive capacity because the look and the smile have a lot of power. Having control over your body communication helps you to be aware of the message you transmit in everyday situations such as a job interview, a first love date, a couple's discussion ...
 


 
If what you express through the body contradicts what you say in words, then you transmit a confusing message to the recipient. For example, if, despite the fact that a person has an excellent resume, he attends a job interview with a sloppy look and arrives at the appointment late, then he transmits a lack of interest in that job. Paying attention to detail is essential to communicate better.
 


 
However, even though there are many studies on body language, it is essential to understand that it is not possible to analyze scientifically what each gesture means. For example, a yawn can be a symptom of boredom. However, it can also mean feeling hungry or that the person is sleepy because they have not slept all night. Putting things in context is essential to avoid making hasty deductions from certain gestures. To know a person is a long process that requires time and many hours of conversation.
 


 
The body language shows the reality of the human being composed of body and mind. While you transmit your ideas through your word, the body expresses its discomfort or well-being through bodily presence.
 


 
If you want to learn to have a better command of the communication of your own body, then I encourage you to participate in a public speaking course where you will get enough information. You can see the importance of body language by doing the exercise of watching a movie on TV without volume. You will notice how you capture information from what you observe.
 


 
Our communication consists of verbal and non-verbal, in which we communicate non-verbally up to 93 percent of the time. The tone of voice, stance, hand motions, facial expressions, all this and more are our non-verbal communication.
 


 
Our vocabulary learns to talk, builds it in school, but our body's language is not taught. That's something we're doing alone. The way we stand to look at others this means something. How well we can use them becomes essential.
 


 
Our body language changes when we meet people. For example, if we meet our school teacher, we stand straight, don't fidget, and be friendly, but on the other hand, if we meet our mates, we change the style by going and giving them a handshake/hug and loosening. We're most drawn to someone with a strong attitude and a friendly smile.
 


 
Another essential feature of the language of the body is to tell what we are thinking about here. The corporeal language will help us find out how someone feels about what they say. For example, someone may tell their boss she'd be happy to take this into account, but her body language might suggest she's not happy about it in reality. This will help a boss determine who is best in handling this task. This can be an essential hype. If she doesn't have a conscience, she can do an acceptable role if another employee will make a life-long client of this small work.
 


 
The deciding factor in a work interview maybe body language. When the body language of the candidate shows that he is easy to manage and trust, he is more likely to get the job, particularly in this challenging job market. We addressed the fact earlier that particular body language is considered awkward and unregulated. These are some of the same characteristics which make a worker less confident and relaxed.
 


 
Through friendship, the language of one's body may show that someone takes care of what the other person says or doesn't care. Leaning into the conversation indicates that he is interested in listening to what the other person says. Leaning back will suggest that he was unselfish or thought superior. Sitting up and standing near during speech may mean that someone actively attempts to convince or control the discussion. Hearing someone when you don't have eye contact means you aren't alert, just waiting for the chance to speak. It gives your friend the impression that you just don't know what they say, and that they cannot listen carefully when it's your turn to chat.
 


 
 
 













 
 
 


 
Body Language of Each Personality Type
 


 
 
 


 
Communication is essential to the human being so that he can live in society and understand and appreciate us. Fortunately, for that: language, we have a resource beneficial. Nevertheless, there is no universal language so that we can use various forms of language in our interactions with others.
 


 
Body language is, in fact, one of our best communication devices. There is also a link between our personalities and the linguistic style we use.
 


 
However, to understand this, we must first take into account that language is capable of taking many forms and that our way of being is not only embodied in what we literally say through words.
 


 
Although usually when we talk about language, speech, and verbal communication are thought of, we understand by language all the system used by one or more individuals to transmit information through a series of symbolic elements or signs whose meaning is shared by both interlocutors, which may be said issuance of voluntary or involuntary information.
 


 
This communication is established with a specific objective, and the act may have different functions such as informing, persuading, organizing one's conduct, or socially linking.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
The types of body language
 


 
 
 


 
emblems
 


 
If we don't know something, we shrug our shoulders. If we are angry with someone, we show the stink finger. If we want to greet someone, we wave our hand or just raise our hand. If we are angry, we clench a fist. It's something we learned very early on. We use body language to save words. Emblems are body language placeholders for words. However, emblems are culture-dependent. African American cultures, for example, have their emblems. These can also contradict ours.
 


 
illustrators
 


 
As emblems pile up, the number of illustrators decreases. Illustrators are the background to a statement. For example, a speaker on stage. He often backs up statements with his hands. Draws things in the air or gives them accents. The eyebrows are also used, for example, to show astonishment. We use illustrators to describe away, to explain a zigzag, or to describe a spiral staircase. Illustrators are also culture-dependent.
 


 
manipulators
 


 
Manipulators are gestures of reassurance. We use calming gestures when we are under stress. Most of the time, we stroke ourselves, drive our way through our hair or rub against our bodies. Some chew their fingernails, others caress their necks or play with their chains or watches. If the number of manipulators increases, this is an indication of a heavy emotional burden.
 


 
 
 













 
Body language of self-confidence
 


 
 
 


 
It is not enough just to understand what should not be done.
 


 
It is essential that the attitude also demonstrates what you want to expose.
 


 
Assertive body language impresses customers, colleagues, or anyone.
 


 
When showing authority, performance in professional and personal life tends to increase.
 


 
Everyone likes to be around someone who feels safe in their skin.
 


 
And that is what you will learn. So, stay tuned for tips.
 


 
1- Be dominant in the handshake
 


 
When talking to a business partner or customers, pay attention when complying.
 


 
Much more than a handshake, this gesture shows who dominates the conversation.
 


 
If you extend your hand with your palm facing downwards, it indicates that you lead the conversation.
 


 
If you do the opposite, palm up, you expect the other to take the lead.
 


 
Using hugs in body language in business is rarer, but it can happen when there are a deep friendship and companionship.
 


 
But be aware: in certain cultures, this is unacceptable.
 


 
2- Breathe deeply
 


 
The rhythm of breathing reveals many signs.
 


 
When inhaling and exhaling in a superficial and fast way, the impression that remains is of stress, nervousness, and fear.
 


 
If you want to show self-confidence, use a technique: take a deep breath until you feel the broader abdomen and the ribs expanding.
 


 
Slow, deep breathing helps to control anger and anxiety.
 


 
3- Fix your eyes between the other person's eyebrows
 


 
Speaking, looking into someone's eyes can be difficult for many.
 


 
However, the way of facing the other shows who is in control of the debate.
 


 
An easy way to use the look of power is to imagine a point between the person's eyebrows and keep your eyes there.
 


 
That way, you will be showing security.
 


 
4. Speak calmly
 


 
The voice is essential to get the right message across. It helps to convey the feeling of credibility and authority.
 


 
During your speech, articulate each word well, take breaks, and breathe easily between sentences.
 


 
This ensures that the other person understands what is being said.
 


 
5- Look for a neutral posture
 


 
Crossed arms indicate annoyance or that you are closed to the subject.
 


 
However, the hands beside the body, in a light way, is a message of neutrality.
 


 
A good tip is to try to mirror the gestures of whoever is talking to you.
 


 
This creates an atmosphere of sympathy and friendship.
 


 
With these body language techniques, you will pass on the correct image to your interlocutors.
 


 
With them, you will make negotiations with your customers much easier and gain respect in your work environment.
 


 













 
CHAPTER SIX
 


 
The Five C's of Body Language
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Regardless of an organization's focus or size, communication is often identified as an area of organizational improvement. Paradoxically, this deficiency survives for decades, being on the list of steering committees more than ever. The question is this:
 


 
How can it be that in an era where information sharing is easier than ever, effective communication remains such a common business challenge?
 


 
Does not it seem surprising that when sharing information is the easiest, organizations have not made progress in offering their employees a useful communication framework?
 


 
It is not surprising in many ways. Communication preferences vary between people; some prefer written information, other visual communication, and much more verbal communication.
 


 
Interest may also vary; what a collaborator wants or needs to know can differ significantly from what matters to another. Similarly, communication remains mostly dependent on people, and the lack of a practical communication framework makes each leader use his "manual" and interpretations, which can cause flow, type, and quantity information to vary significantly between departments and locations where different employees work.
 


 
Effective and high-performance communication.
 


 
Despite these differences in communication preferences and practices, high-performing organizations have taught us a direct path to better organizational communication.
 


 
Over the past fourteen years, our research and work have enabled us to decipher effective models and methodologies for their development. We frame the four essential characteristics of high-performance communication:
 


 
Let us see briefly what is behind each axis that defines the characteristics of high-performance organizational communication:
 




 
Consistent - Regular and predictable communication in any circumstance.
 




 
Ensuring regular and predictable communication is essential to building trust in collaborators and teams of an organization. To do this, select from several approaches to improve information flow through organizations. Some of our preferences for greater organizational efficiency are the C-Suite blog, the weekly newsletter, leadership pills, quarterly town hall meetings, and management breakfasts.
 


 
Whichever option is chosen, the most important thing is that leaders carefully consider the ability to fulfill their commitments without deviations before committing. Otherwise, announcing a new initiative that does not execute as expected or that does not continue for a significant period will only break the framework of mutual trust to improve communication.
 


 
This consistency should also include monitoring and reporting on previously discussed topics in which future actions or developments were planned. Similarly, ensuring adequate answers to any questions arising from organizational communication is a fundamental aspect of consistency.
 




 
Communication 
 




 
A culture of organizational transparency requires honest communication.
 


 
Even if the communication is conducted regularly, if it does not address the interests of the collaborators or does not address what is relevant in the day-to-day running of the organization, our teams may feel alienated or even disappointed by the organization's reality.
 


 
In this sense, a current issue may also have an uncertain framework or may not be thoroughly discussed. In these situations, collaborators appreciate their leaders' recognition on the matter, even when much of the information about it is unknown or cannot be communicated.
 


 
An honest statement about what is known and can be shared with a communication plan will establish honesty as an organizational communication value.
 




 
Convenient - Timely.
 




 
Another way to ensure that the organization's communications are convenient and meaningful is to strive for its timeliness, that is, for its punctuality. In this sense, we must understand the opportunity in three phases of time:
 




 
Before:
 What information or preparation should be provided to collaborators and teams so that they are well-positioned to innovate, meet the future's needs, and take advantage of the key opportunities it can provide?
 


 
During:
 What is happening that may provoke questions from collaborators and teams that require more information?
 


 
Next:
 What milestones have been achieved recently that can be celebrated, learned, or shared to build on?
 




 
Organizations typically have room to improve communications in each of these phases, but the "during" phase can be particularly tricky when something is not entirely clear or causes concern among teams.
 


 
Again, in these cases, communicating about known information promptly is better than saying nothing until every response is known. Rumors are the worst enemy of high-performance organizational communication.
 




 
Complementarity
 




 
In the previous point, the leader and his role in coordinating team members were discussed, choosing the best prepared for each task. The complementarity is to count on the team with people with particular knowledge and skills to respond to the needs of the clients globally.
 


 
The training and experience, both personally and professionally, will enrich the results of everyday work.
 


 
Therefore, whenever possible, it is essential to form teams in which their members complement each other. Knowing each person beforehand favors the coordination of tasks. It is an excellent option to bet on the creation of teams of people with different profiles, even if the coordination is more complicated since, in this way, the results will be enriched.
 




 
Collaborative - connecting creativity and talent.
 




 
Ensuring an organization shares relevant information consistently, reliably, and time is critical to high-performance organizational communication. But that is not enough.
 


 
Communication must be a conversation that connects hierarchies, divisions, functions, locations in both directions to create an ecosystem of mutual trust and real commitment.
 


 
Based on our experience in developing worldwide high-performance teams, corporate social media provides the perfect environment. However, to make conversation possible, leaders play a fundamental role as role models, eliminating fear and connecting opportunities.
 


 
When this happens, corporate social media conversations create learning, collaboration, re-application, and innovation bonds.
 


 
 
 













 
How to identify the subtle inputs sent by the body
 


 
The brain is your boss
 


 
While you are doing an important math test, you know your brain is very hard at work. But your mind does more than just recall formulae. Do your hands start sweating when the test is given? It is because the brain works. Do you feel a great relief when you realize the answer to a question is known? That is your brain too. And yes, it is also your brain that is responsible for the daydream about the big party you are going to be going to next Friday.
 


 
The brain is the bossiest organ in the whole body: it commands virtually every other part of the body, continually telling them what to do, no matter if you are aware of it or not. Not only does it control what you think and feel, how you learn things, and remember them and how you move, but it also controls many things you are less aware of, such as a heartbeat, sleepy, or awake.
 


 
Daily brain and nervous system
 


 
If the brain is imagined as a central computer that controls all of the organism's functions, then the nervous system becomes a network or network that sends messages in both directions between the brain and the various parts of the body. This is done through the backbone, starting from the brain and going down the back and containing filaments linked to other organs and parts of the body. This is done via the spinal cord.
 


 
Upon entering the brain, a message tells the body how to respond. For example, if you accidentally touch a hot oven, the nerves in your skin can send a message of pain to your brain. The brain responds by sending a message to delete muscles. Luckily this neurological relay race takes much less time to read its definition!
 


 
How the brain functions
 


 
The human brain is exceptionally lightweight and weighs just over 3 pounds (1,360 g), considering all it does. It does have a multitude of folds and grooves, however, which give it the surface to store all the essential body details.
 


 
The spinal cord, meanwhile, is about 18 inches long (45 cm) and just below 2 cm thick, with a long bundle of nerve tissue. This extends from the bottom of the brain down to the backbone edge. During the whole journey, specific nerves radiate to the rest of the body. These form the peripheral nervous system.
 


 
A series of ring-shaped, intertwining bones called the vertebrates protecting the brain and spinal cord with bones, the brain with the skull bones, and the spinal cord. The membrane layers called meninges, and a special fluid named cerebrospinal fluid are both protected and cushioned. The fluid assists in protecting, sustaining, and removing excess nerve tissue.
 


 
The brain consists of three principal components: the forebrain, the midbrain, and the hindbrain.
 


 
The forebrain
 


 
The forebrain is the human brain's most voluminous and complicated part. It consists of the telencephalon — the area with all the folds and grooves typically reproduced in brain illustrations — and other structures below the telencephalon.
 


 
The telencephalon contains information that makes us feel and move: intelligence, memory, personality, emotions, speech, and ability. Some specific telencephalon areas are responsible for processing different information types. They are called lobes, with four lobes in total: frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital.
 


 
The telencephalon is divided into two halves, called hemispheres, connected by a bundle of nerve fibers (corpus callosum) that allows them to communicate.
 


 
While the two halves may seem identical as an image and reflection, many scientists believe they have different functions. The left hemisphere is logical, analytical, and objective. Law is more intuitive, creative, and subjective. So, while solving a math problem, you use the left hemisphere, while you use the right when listening to music. Scientists believe that the left hemisphere predominates in some people or the right and that no hemisphere predominates in others, since both hemispheres are used to the same extent.
 


 
The telencephalon's outermost layer is called the cortex (also known as "grey matter"). The information the five senses collect reaches the brain through the spinal cord. This information is then sent to other nervous system parts for further processing. For example, when you touch a hot oven, this information will not only be processed to move your hand but will also be sent to other parts of the brain to help you remember not to do it again.
 


 
Thalamus, hypothalamus, and hypophysis are inside the forebrain. The thalamus transmits signals from sensory organs such as eyes, ears, nose, and fingers to the cerebral cortex. The hypothalamus controls temperature, thirst, appetite, sleep patterns, and other body processes automatically. It also regulates growth hormones, metabolism, mineral and fluid balance, sexual maturation, and tension.
 


 
The midbrain
 


 
The midbrain (midbrain), located below the central part of the forebrain, acts as a master of ceremonies, coordinating all the messages that reach the brain and those that go to the spinal cord.
 


 
The hindbrain
 


 
The hindbrain (brain pons) is located below the posterior part of the telencephalon and encompasses the cerebellum and medulla. The cerebellum - also called a "little brain" because it looks like a small-scale version of the brain; it controls balance, movement, and coordination. The bridge and the medulla, together with the midbrain, make up the so-called brain stem. The brain stem receives, sends, and coordinates all brain messages. It also controls many functions that the body automatically performs, such as breathing, heart rate, blood pressure, swallowing, digestion, and blinking.
 


 
The way the nervous system works
 


 
A multitude of small cells called neurons depends primarily on the basic functioning of the nervous system. The brain contains millions of those cells, which are specialized in many types of functions. For example, sensory neurons pick up sensory information in the eyes, ears, nose, tongue, and skin and send it to the brain. Motor neurons transmit messages from the brain and send them to the rest of the body.
 


 
All neurons transmit information to each other through a complex electrochemical process, establishing connections with each other that affect the way we think, learn things, move, and behave.
 


 
Intelligence, learning, and memory
 


 
When you learn something, messages repeatedly travel from one neuron to another. Then the brain creates neuronal connexions (or pathways) to make it easier and better.
 


 
The brain is extremely adaptable to children. When one part of a child's brain is injured, another part often performs some of the functions lost. But as we get older, the brain has a more challenging time creating new connexions or neural networks, making it harder for us to learn new tasks or change established behavior. That is why many scientists believe it is important to keep challenging our brains by proposing new learning and establishing new connexions, as this will help keep the mind active for the rest of our lives.
 


 
Memory is another dynamic brain function. The things we do, learn, and see our first processed in the cerebral cortex. Then if that information is sufficiently important to be worth remembering permanently, it is sent to other parts of the brain (such as the hippocampus and the amygdala) to keep it in long-term memory. As these messages travel through the mind, connexions (pathways) are created as memory foundations.
 


 
Movement
 


 
Different parts of the telencephalon are responsible for moving other parts of the body. The left side of the brain controls movements on the right side of the body, and the right side of the brain controls actions on the left side of the body. For example, when you kick a soccer ball with your right foot, the left cerebral hemisphere is in charge of sending the message that allows you to do it.
 


 
Basic bodily functions
 


 
The autonomous nervous system is part of the peripheral nervous system, and it controls a large number of processes in the body, such as breathing, digestion, sugaring (or sweating), which we do not have to consider. The autonomous nervous system consists of two subsystems, together with the sympathetic and the parasympathetic nervous systems.
 


 
The nervous system, like a robbery, is sympathetic and prepares the body for rapid responses. The sympathetic nervous system makes the heart pump faster when something dangerous happens, so it sends more blood to the different parts of the body, which may need it. It also causes the adrenal glands above the kidneys to release adrenaline, which helps to give muscles additional strength for rapid escape. This process is termed a response to "fight or flight."
 


 
The parasympathetic nervous system does precisely the opposite; it prepares the rest of the body. It also helps the digestive system, so that the body can assimilate the nutrients in the food we eat effectively.
 


 
The senses
 


 
Your eyes can see your best friend approaching. But if you didn't have a brain, you wouldn't even recognize it. Your favorite pizza is sure to be delicious. But if you didn't have a mind, your taste buds wouldn't let you know if you're eating a pizza or the cardboard box it came from. None of the sense organs would be of any use without sensory information processing in the brain.
 




 
Eyes.
 The view probably tells us much more about the world around us than any other sense. The light that enters our eyes projects an inverted image onto the retina. The retina transforms light into nerve signals and sends them to the brain. The brain inverts the image so that we see it from the right and tells us what it is that we are seeing.
 


 
Ear.
 All the sounds we hear are the result of sound waves that enter our ears and cause vibrations in our eardrums. Those vibrations are transferred along the ossicle chain of the middle ear and transformed into nerve signals. Then the cerebral cortex processes those signals and tells us what we are hearing.
 


 
Taste.
 The tongue contains clusters of sensory cells called taste buds that react to chemicals in food. The taste buds respond to the sweet, sour, salty, and bitter flavors. They are responsible for sending messages to the areas of the cerebral cortex responsible for processing flavor.
 


 
Smell.
 The olfactory cells in the mucosa that lines the inside of the nostrils react to the chemicals that we breathe in and send messages to the brain through specific nerves. According to experts, the brain can distinguish between more than 10,000 different smells. With such a highly developed sensitivity, it is not surprising that researchers suggest that smells are intimately linked to memories.
 


 
Touch.
 The skin has more than 4 million sensory receptors — mainly cantered on the fingers, language, and lips — that catch touch, sound, temperature, and pain-related details. To process and react, send them to the brain.
 




 
 
 


 
Brain conditions
 


 
Since the brain controls practically everything, when there is a problem in mind, it is usually severe and can affect many parts of the body. Hereditary diseases, brain disorders associated with mental illness, and trauma to the head can affect how the brain works and disrupt other parts of the body's daily activities.
 


 
Here are some of the problems that can affect the brain:
 


 
Brain tumors.
 A tumor is an abnormally caused tissue growth. A tumor in the brain can grow very slowly, causing very few symptoms until it reaches a significant size. Also, cancer can grow and spread rapidly, causing severe and rapidly deteriorating symptoms.
 


 
Tumors of the brain may be benign or malignant. Benign ones are generally limited to a specific area and can be surgically cured if they are in places where they can be removed without damaging adjacent tissues. Malignant tumors are cancerous and tend to grow and spread more quickly.
 


 
Cerebral palsy.
 Cerebral paralysis results from a developmental defect or brain injury that is violent, labor-related, or early years. Cerebral paralysis affects the motor areas of the brain. An individual with cerebral paralysis may have an average understanding of severe mental or developmental delays.
 


 
Cerebral paralysis can affect body movement in many ways. In milder cases of cerebral palsy, the individual concerned may have only slight weakness in the muscles of the arm and leg. In other cases, a higher degree of motor disability can occur-the person may have trouble speaking and making basic movements like walking.
 


 
Epilepsy.
 Epilepsy is a condition of the nervous system that can cause seizures. Partial seizures only affect specific areas of the brain, and symptoms vary depending on the epileptic focus's location. Other seizures, called generalized seizures, involve a larger part of the brain and are generally associated with the body's uncontrolled movements and loss of consciousness. Although, in many cases, doctors don't know its cause, epilepsy can be related to brain injuries, tumors, or infections. The tendency to develop epilepsy can be inherited from the family.
 


 
Headache.
 There are many types of headaches; the most frequent are:
 


 
tension headache (the most common pain of all) is caused by accumulated muscle tension in the head, neck, and shoulders migraine is a strong and recurring headache of unclear cause Outbreak headache is often considered a form of migraine
 


 
Migraines can appear with or without notice and last for several hours or days. The tendency to have a migraine seems to have a hereditary basis. A person with migraines can experience such an episode when exposed to a "trigger" (for example, a particular food), and may experience dizziness, numbness, nausea, sensitivity to light, and see zigzagging lines.
 


 
Meningitis and encephalitis.
 These are infections of the brain and spinal cord that are usually caused by bacteria or viruses. Meningitis is an inflammation of the membranes that line the brain and spinal cord, and encephalitis, an inflammation of brain tissue. Both of these disorders can cause permanent brain damage.
 


 
Mental illness.
 In terms of thinking and working, mental illness encompasses a broad range of issues. Experts know that some mental illnesses are associated with structural or chemical abnormalities present in the brain. Some mental illnesses are inherited, but although researchers know those illnesses are inherited, they have yet to identify their cause. Brain injuries and drug and alcohol abuse can also trigger some mental illness.
 


 
Signs of chronic mental illness, such as bipolar disorder or schizophrenia, may begin to manifest during childhood. Mental illnesses that can affect teens include depression, eating disorders like bulimia or anorexia nervosa, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and phobias.
 


 
Cranioencephalic trauma.
 Traumatic brain injuries fall into two categories: internal and external (usually affecting the scalp). Internal trauma can affect the skull, the inside of the blood vessels of the brain. Fortunately, only the scalp is injured in most falls and blows to the head, which is often more fearsome than dangerous. Internal trauma is usually more severe because the skull acts as a delicate brain-protective helmet.
 


 
Concussions are a type of traumatic internal brain injury which causes a temporary loss of normal brain function. Repeated concussions can permanently damage the brain. Practice in sport is one of the activities where adolescents suffer the most concussions. Therefore, when practicing sports, you have to wear the appropriate protective equipment and stop practicing it when you are suffering a traumatic brain injury.
 


 
 
 













 
Mastering the Secrets of Non-Verbal Communication
 


 
 
 


 
In this section, I will explain how to learn non-verbal communication and master it correctly until you can get what you want from people by using the right levers. But before going into the details, I must give you this essential little reminder to understand what it is all about.
 


 
Do you know why most people hate phone calls? Because they unconsciously feel that they are restrained in their expression with their interlocutors. They think that they cannot communicate fully, as in a face-to-face dialogue. They know that there is a lack of data, of information, in what they transmit. Why? It's simple: on the phone, everything goes through the words expressed. The only non-verbal communication is in the tone of the voice—everything else, body language, micro-expressions, all that, it doesn't exist on the phone.
 


 
Why learn non-verbal communication is important:
 


 
Specialists agree that non-verbal communication represents 70 to 80% of the message transmitted to the other party in a conversation or an exchange between human beings.
 


 
I don't know if you realize it, but it's huge. Imagine for a moment, a conversation in which 80% of the words are deleted. Or a book from which 80% of the chapters are removed. The importance of non-verbal communication is at this point.
 


 
There is a second thing on which communication specialists agree: one cannot communicate. This means that your body language always expresses something, even when you try to make it communicate nothing. Even 'non-communication' is a form of communication. And it will influence your interlocutor, who will see a closed posture there, with all that it sends us a message.
 


 
If your goal is to learn non-verbal communication, you will make the right choice because it will open a lot of doors for you. You will be able to influence your interlocutors without using words, to get your ideas across smoothly. Above all, you will be able to decode what people say beyond their words. This will allow you to ' understand ' people, to feel their needs, and to gain their confidence quickly by anticipating what they cannot express themselves in words.
 


 
Non-verbal communication is like a second language. It is better than that: it is a language that does not lie because 99% of people do not even realize everything they under-communicate with their bodies. Knowing how to read body language is a bit like reading people's minds; it's a kind of superpower (and you quickly become addicted), like The Mentalist.
 


 
How to decode non-verbal communication
 


 
Each gesture, each posture, each micro-expression sends signals to the person in front of you. A slight raising of the eyebrow, a crossing of the arms, a rocking movement of the foot, all the gestures that one makes without realizing it means something, and are unconsciously translated by your interlocutor.
 


 
Besides, all human beings know how to recognize the great signals of non-verbal communication. I'm not going to list you; in the vast majority of cases, a broad smile means that you feel good, your clenched fist means anger, and tears mean sadness…
 


 
If you know that, I will reassure you for the following: you can learn body language. The main task is to succeed in detecting the less noticeable or less marked emotions. Everyone notices when someone has a huge tantrum, it's not complicated.
 


 
On the other hand, being able to spot hidden, buried emotions, such as when we tackle a sensitive subject for someone, or when we offend a person or even know if they are lying to us, becomes more subtle and requires training. Here's how to get there.
 


 
Sharpen your sense of observation
 


 
The first step in learning non-verbal communication is to work on your sense of observation to spot any small signs of any feeling or emotion in your interlocutors. Most of the signals sent by people are quite subtle. It is not necessarily easy to know the emotional state of a person who has taken the habit of hiding his emotions since his entry into adulthood.
 


 
So, you have to be on the lookout for small signals. For example, when you speak, look at the person's face, especially their eyebrows, which may show astonishment, joy, anger, etc., depending on their movements or position. Likewise, remember to observe the hands (is the person twisting their fingers? Are they lying on the table? In the pocket? Etc), the general posture of the body (closed or open), also observe the lips (especially the slight grin from the mouth which also expresses many things).
 


 
In poker's language, we talk about 'tells,' to talk about small, almost invisible gestures that describe the emotional state of the player, to know if he is bluffing or not. These 'tells' that you have to learn to spot in people, in everyday life, to decode their emotions, intentions, and inner states. And for that, no secret, you have to work on your sense of observation. Besides, poker is a great way to develop it (both to 'read' others and to learn to master your body language). If you are new to this game, you can easily find web pages to help you practice better. Then, I recommend that you find a club near you to play in real life and be directly confronted with intense observation situations. You will see, there is something really fun about discovering the emotions of others.
 


 
Cross the different information received
 


 
Keep in mind that each of these elements taken out of context does not necessarily mean much. Someone who touches his nose is not necessarily lying or preparing a bad blow; he may simply have something that tickles his nostril. On the other hand, if you have a fleeting glance, contact with the nose, gestures of the hand a little too pronounced, and that it is coupled with a certain tone in the voice, then yes, you certainly have some face to one who lies to you.
 


 
What I want you to understand is that we should not conclude too quickly. The woman who touches her hair to seduce the man in front of her is a myth. This only means something if the rest of her body language communicates interest to her interlocutor (leaning forward, open posture, body language modeled on the one she appreciates, etc.).
 


 
Tell yourself that you need at least two distinct signs to get an idea of
 
the person's emotional state in front of you.
 


 
Trust your instinct, your sixth sense.
 


 
There are dictionaries for non-verbal communication, body language. But there is something at least as powerful in my opinion: your sixth sense. Learn to listen to your little voice inside you, your gut feeling, which tells you “this guy is lying,” or “he doesn't believe me,” “I hurt him,” etc. By working to improve your sense of observation, you will develop a real ability to feel what the person feels in front of you immediately. Believe me. You will be less often mistaken in being attentive to your little inner voice which tries to slip its good advice to you, rather than by referring to any dictionary of non-verbal communication, as complete as it is.
 


 
Practice as much as possible
 


 
Once you get there, you will already have an excellent level of body language decoding. You will be able to interpret more things than most people, and therefore be more subtle in your communication with people.
 


 
To progress quickly, you must practice continuously. Observe the people around you, on public transport, in cafes, etc. Don't lose a crumb of all the information that comes before your eyes.
 


 
One great exercise I can give you is putting on a movie or series that you like and turning off the sound. Observe the gestures of the actors, their facial expressions, their successive postures. And try to guess what's going on to recognize situations. Then correct your exercise by repeating the same scene with the sound, and see if you had just fallen on the emotions of the characters. For my part, I did this exercise there on Big Bang Theory, but it works with everything!
 


 
Besides, the advice I just gave you should make you tilt: by definition, you observe actors, who play a role, therefore who can 'faker' an emotion by using their body language to perfection. This means, in particular, that you, too, can learn to express yourself through non-verbal communication, by perfectly mastering what is released from your body. This is the subject of the next part of these chapters.
 


 
 
 













 
Master your non-verbal communication
 


 
After learning to decode the non-verbal language of the people around you, it is essential to take the next step in the process: successfully mastering your body communication. In other words, manage to get the messages you want unconsciously to the people you want. It almost sounds like science fiction when I say it like that, yet that's the reality. I'll take the example of film actors, that's exactly what they do: they use every millimeter of their body to transmit emotions in you when you look at them on the other side of the screen. It’s tough, but it’s not impossible to master, and either way, you probably don't need to win an Oscar.
 


 
Here are the steps to master your non-verbal communication.
 


 
Become aware of your body language
 


 
This requires being fully in the present moment. You have to be focused on your body, feeling every bit of skin, from your toes to the top of your head. If this seems difficult to you, I recommend that you start with a regular practice of meditation. Ten minutes a day is enough to successfully calm the flow of thoughts, clear your mind, and be fully aware of all the sensations going through our body.
 


 
Make it a habit, regularly, to surprise your posture and observe yourself. How do I stand? What head do I make right now, when this person speaks to me? Where are my hands? What do I do with my fingers, my arms? What is the position of my legs? Be aware of your body, what it is communicating to you. For example, in an embarrassing conversation, your legs are likely turning outward to escape the confrontation. Or if you're stressed, find yourself twisting your hands or frantically moving your toes. Observing your body language and associating it with your emotions also allows you to make your dictionary. And then, to be able to recognize elements of body language in others and associate them with their own emotions.
 


 
Concretely, from today, I recommend that you proceed as follows:
 




 
Pay attention to your emotions
 


 
As soon as you spot one, whatever it is, observe your body language and write it down in a notebook
 


 
Repeat the process to create your own personal 'dictionary' of your non-verbal communication.
 




 
Over time, you will have in mind a whole list of attitudes, behaviors, ' tells, 'which relate to your inner emotions. You will know, for example, that when you are angry, you will clench your jaw, and your nostrils will widen slightly. And it will be the same for all types of emotion that you can feel every day.
 


 
Correct your gestures permanently
 


 
Once you've gotten into the habit of observing yourself and paralleling your body language with your internal emotions, it's time to take the next step. It consists of correcting what you communicate to the unconscious of people. For this, we will use two things:
 




 
The custom dictionary of your body language, which you built up in the previous step, over time.
 


 
The emotions you want others to think you are feeling (are you following?).
 




 
Basically, to use the example from the previous step, if you want to make someone understand that you are angry with them, clench your jaw, swell your nostrils slightly, frown, and that's it, don't verbalize, the message should get through. You can even train with friends to see if your acting plays off.
 


 
Where it gets interesting is in certain situations, especially when you have to convince people. During a job interview, during a romantic date, all you have to do is adopt the posture and body language you want to get the message of your choice. For example, if you want to show someone that you are confident, based on your dictionary, you can occupy more space with your arms, stand straighter, look the person in the eye, etc. And all that, even if you are deep in fear.
 


 
All you have to do is transform yourself into a studio actor on demand to be able to use non-verbal communication to your advantage. And believe me, it is an extremely powerful tool that will take you far beyond anything you could have imagined. By mastering this art, you will:
 




 
Succeed in putting people in your pocket by systematically making a good first impression,
 


 
Anticipate the needs of those around you by detecting how they feel before they even verbalize it
 


 
Give off the charisma necessary to move forward in your life as you wish
 




 
Many other benefits you will discover as you go on this wonderful journey into the world of non-verbal communication.
 


 













 
CHAPTER SEVEN
 


 
Verbal Communication and Nonverbal Communication
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Verbal and nonverbal communication makes up our interactions with others in business and interpersonal relationships, as well as in our financial, personal success, and our physical and psychological well-being. Understanding the different aspects of verbal and nonverbal communication, and the essential roles they play in our interactions with others is the first step in improving communication. 
 


 
Verbal communication: characteristics
 


 
Verbal communication is one in which the sender uses words, whether spoken or written, to transmit the message to the recipient. It is the most effective form of communication because the exchange of information and feedback are speedy. There is less chance of misunderstanding since the communication between the parties is clear; that is, the parties are using words to express those they want to say.
 


 
Communication can be done in two ways:
 




 
Face-to-face communication: oral, conferences, phone calls, seminars, etc.
 


 
In writing: letters, emails, text messages, etc.
 




 
There are two main types of communication:
 




 
Formal communication
, also called official communication: it is a type of communication in which the sender follows a predefined channel to transmit the information to the receiver.
 


 
Informal communication:
 is the type of communication in which the sender does not follow any predefined channel to transmit the information.
 




 
Nonverbal communication: examples and types
 


 
Nonverbal communication is based on the understanding or interpretation of each of the parts that are part of the communicative act since the transmission of messages does not occur through words but with signs. Therefore, if the receiver understands the message completely, and there is adequate feedback, the communication will be successful. A very clear example of this type of communication is facial expression, gestures, and body position when speaking.
 


 
In many situations, it complements verbal communication to obtain a more global vision of the situation, to understand the state of people (if they are nervous, relaxed, sad ...) and certain personality characteristics (if the person is shy, outgoing ...). Therefore, it serves to obtain that information that the discourse does not provide. The types of nonverbal communication are as follows:
 




 
Cronemia:
 is the use of time in communication. For example, punctual or unpunctual people, speed of speech, etc.
 


 
Proxemic:
 is the distance maintained by the person concerning others during the communicative act. The Proxima tells us when the communication is intimate, personal, social, and public.
 


 
Vocal:
 the volume, tone and voice ring used by the transmitter
 


 
Haptic:
 is the use of touch in communication that expresses emotions and feelings
 


 
Kinesia:
 is the study of the person's body language: gestures, postures, facial expressions ...
 


 
Artifacts: 
it is the appearance of the person who shows aspects of his personality, for example, the way of dressing, jewelry, lifestyle, etc.
 




 
Differences between Verbal and Nonverbal Communication
 


 
Verbal communication is a form of communication in which words are used to exchange information with other people, either in the form of speech or in writing. On the contrary, nonverbal communication does not use words, but other modes of communication, such as body language, facial expressions, sign language, etc. are used. These are some of the differences between verbal and nonverbal communication:
 




 
Words are used in verbal communication, while non-verbal communication is based on signs.
 


 
There is less chance of confusion between the sender and receiver in verbal communication while in non-verbal communication, understanding is more difficult since language is not used.
 


 
In verbal communication, the exchange of messages is faster, which makes feedback very fast. Nonverbal communication is based more on understanding, which takes time and, therefore, is slower.
 


 
In verbal communication, the presence of both parties in the place is not necessary, since it can also be done if the parties are in different places. On the other hand, in nonverbal communication, both parties must be there at the time of communication.
 


 
In verbal communication, documentary evidence is maintained if the communication is formal or written. But there is no conclusive evidence of nonverbal communication.
 


 
Verbal communication fulfills the most natural desire of humans to speak. In the case of nonverbal communication, feelings, emotions, or personality is communicated through the acts performed by the parties in the communicative act.
 


 
It is important to comment that both types of communication complement each other and, in many cases, occur simultaneously.
 




 
 
 













 
Rapid Cynological Or Nonverbal Language Decryption.
 


 
 
 


 
The voice. 
 


 
It's our word's first vector. We can say if they are nervous, relaxed, smiling, etc., without even seeing the person talking to us.
 


 
The voice elements are as follows (decode): The following.
 




 
Timbre:
 it's unique to each person and ranges from extremely serious to very acute.
 


 
Volume:
 level of sound to be adapted to the context and the audience, one or more persons, friendly or public speaking, etc. A speech that is hard to hear or that doesn't penetrate an entire audience represents a sense that the speaker is uncontrolled, nervous, or unsure.
 


 
Flow:
 that's the speed we're talking about. Pay particular attention to your speed if you have to speak openly because when speaking before an assembly, it is common to speak too quickly and thereby indicate some nervousness.
 


 
The sound:
 the tone of the voice brings words to life. It's the kind of melody we're talking to.
 




 
It is important to modulate your voice's tone to capture the attention of your / your interlocutors, for example, or to awaken a sleeping audience.
 


 
Physical appearance
 


 
If we are used to saying that the habit does not make the monk - which is intrinsically true, remains that our general physical appearance (decoding) and clothing convey many messages about our personality.
 


 
Also, if you are well in your outfit, you will appear more confident and inspire more confidence in others. 
 


 
Unconsciously, before our interlocutor has even said a single word, our brain analyzes its overall appearance. 
 


 
Without wanting to learn more, many people stop at this first impression.
 


 
The same is true of a recruitment interview; you use more or less deliberately, just like some more abstract aspects of your personality, certain qualities, skills.
 


 
For example, you might have a neglected appearance because of responsibility.
 


 
Also, dressed like most people in the business you apply for gives you an advantage because you have the impression because you belong to the same group.
 


 
It is the mirror, which induces sympathy and positivity instantly and unconsciously.
 


 
So you must follow the dress code of the profession and the spirit of the business you apply for during a work interview.
 


 
The colors of our minds and personalities are also a great deal.
 


 
Posture and gestures
 


 
Your movements and your way of doing them indicate strongly how you feel within yourself and your real intentions. Your face-to-face, side-by-side determine your relationship to the latter, sitting, standing, etc.
 


 
Posture
 


 
Your general location (decode), head disposition, and location before an interlocutor sends out unconscious messages: are you any threat to him?
 


 
Are you exuberant of warmth and friendliness or hostility and aggression? If you sit facing the speaker, do you lean to the second or rather wedge the upper body at the back instead of the back?? Cross your legs, don't you? Where are your hands, and what do you do?
 


 
Without a word spoken, our interlocutor's attitude lets us read various information.
 


 
Feet fixed in the ground, straight back, relaxed hands, non-fleeing look... They are all elements that have a specific charisma, self-confidence, soundness, and energy.
 


 
On the opposite, a heavy sense of shyness, discomfort, lack of self-esteem, nervousness, etc. Back leaning forward, blank eyes, hands tortured constantly.
 


 
Crossed arms or legs suggest a shut attitude.
 


 
Gestures
 


 
You are in a state of rest, anxiety, warmth, hostility, hostility, threat, openness, closedness...
 


 
Your interlocutor interprets each of your actions unconsciously and can, for example, determine the result of negotiations or discredit somebody's intervention.
 


 
Running your hand through your hair (decode), rubbing your nose, mouth, or chin is a matter of lying and fear. Similar to jerky or fast motion.
 


 
Instead, large, controlled, and slow moves are signs of trust and comfort.
 


 
Among the major gestures, we can mention the handshake that has been more or less soft, supported more or less, the index accusing, indicators simply, permission noddings, etc.
 


 
The look
 


 
Is it not the mirror of the soul that we are saying? In addition to that formula, the gaze gives people who know how to decode a lot of details.
 


 
Eye contact is often necessary to answer a query. The latter's strength can make the person easy to turn to or, instead, annoy him or her, even destabilize or scare them.
 


 
The gaze can be there, assisted, set, unstable, fleeing, turning up or to the ground, straight, and can submit various information: dominance, coercion, flight, fear, irritation, boredom, rage, warmth, goodwill, etc.
 


 
Please take care not to be too pushy to look at your contact person(s) in your eyes that will make them uncomfortable.
 


 
Facial expressions and micro-expressions
 


 
Gestures and attitudes were certainly the first means of communication between humans and constituted a veritable paralanguage that accompanies and completes the verbal message.
 


 
The body language manifests itself in postures which may concern: the head, the bust, the pelvis, the legs, and the arms.
 


 
Through gestures, we express ourselves, and we can be defensive or aggressive.
 




 
The nod of the head back and forth which signifies approval,
 


 
The outstretched hand in a sign of peace,
 


 
The raised fist in a sign of revolt,
 


 
The armor the finger of honor,
 


 
Etc.
 




 
An upward eyebrow, an edge of the mouth, a curling eye, a front that folds, tense lips ... Some facial expressions are unwittingly moved by our muscles and are easily detected (decoding).
 


 
But for most of us, others, which are more subtle, but just like unwitting, pass unknown, reveal invaluable information.
 


 
It is known as micro-expression. The latter are universals, extremely stubborn (less than half a second), and the expressions of one of our seven emotions (joy, sadness, fear, anger, degustation, surprise, contempt, underlined by Paul Ekman-American psychology specialized in the study of emotions.
 


 
The former needs extensive knowledge and training to use them as benchmarks if it is easy to interpret.
 


 
Pupils' dilation, a slight blink of eyes, and half-open mouth are subtle and yet very talkative for the uninformed eye.
 


 
The mentalists, especially, master this Art, among other things, beautifully and frequently bluff the public, which remains astonished in the face of so much power.
 


 
If we are implicated, arrested, then we have barrier gestures.
 


 
Among the most common:
 




 
hands-on ears, eyes or mouth,
 


 
arms crossed,
 


 
rubbing hands,
 


 
forms of readjustment: the lock of hair, the fold of a pantaloon, a skirt, imaginary dust, clearing of the throat…
 


 
We also communicate through conventional signs:
 


 
the finger pointed towards the door means “get out! ”
 


 
the sign of the hand to say“goodbye ”
 


 
the nod of the head to say“yes ”
 


 
the clapping of hands (applause) to show our satisfaction in front of a demonstration.
 




 
 
 


 
Space and distance
 


 
The distance
 


 
Edward Twitchell Hall - the American anthropologist specializing in interculturalism at the beginning of the XXth century - brought to light the proxemic concept through which he classifies the type of relationship between 2 protagonists to the physical distance separating them during an interaction and fine cultural rules. He thus highlighted four zones, varying according to the habits and customs:
 


 
Intimate:
 highly emotional range between 15 cm and 45 cm; this is the distance between, for instance, two members of the same family, whose emotionally strong links (physical contact, whispers, etc.). A person outside the area does not perceive the dialogue (s) (decodes). The distance from secrecy is often called.
 


 
Personal:
 it is referred to as the effective zone from 45 cm to 1.20 m. Emotionally, but enough to tick the effect, the bonds are less intense. This is the difference between two people who know each other well (friends), for example, for a specific discussion. The dialogues are audible but relatively silly. Distance from the trust is named.
 


 
Social:
 1.20 meters to 3.60 meters; this is the socialization zone with interactions between people that regularly know each other or rub each other (connections, colleagues, and so on). Without effort, the voice is heard and heard.
 


 
The distance between a person and a group of individuals (for example, lecturer facing his or her audience) is no physical contact or direct interaction. Public:
 


 
Each individual has their perception of these areas, which it is essential to respect; otherwise, the discussion will be overturned before it has even started.
 


 
You will have to change depending on your background, temperament, or even the essence of your touch. Don't pass an area's threshold unless invited!
 


 
Space
 


 
The space in which communication takes place also affects us.
 


 
The gestures are performed in space. This space is codified. We know the expression, "keep your distance."
 


 
Each of us marks our distance by talking to the other. There are four communication zones:
 




 
intimate zone (15 to 45 cm), tone of confidence,
 


 
personal zone (between 45 and 1.20 m), professional, even friendly relationships,
 


 
social zone (1.20 to 3, 50 m), marks the function of each,
 


 
public area (> 3.50 m), facing an audience.
 




 
Anyone who enters an area that is not reserved for him commits a fault, and the person who is the victim feels uncomfortable, destabilized, attacked.
 


 
We all have a personal territory that we protect from their external charisma.
 


 
This space and the objects in it can become an extension of our physical body. (Car, chair, desk, etc.)
 


 
The layout of a room, the layout of the tables affect our communication, which plays in favor of their persuasive force.
 


 
Power of body language
 


 
Listening and understanding one's interlocutor beyond their words is a huge asset in many situations. This allows, among other things, to:
 




 
Interact clearly and effectively with their interlocutors: particularly in sales interviews or a job interview.
 


 
More easily convince by taking the right position and appropriate gestures.
 


 
Redirect negotiations to a closed contact person by identifying signs of anger, interest, etc. and correct the shot.
 


 
More accurately identify the personality and signs of nerve or lying of a recruiting candidate.
 


 
Manage conflict decoding and detecting the unpublished more effectively.
 


 
Detect shift resistance until it is explicitly defined.
 




 
Facial expressions and body movements
 


 
These are the facial expressions that manifest emotions: joy, surprise, disgust, sadness, anger, fear...
 


 
These expressions can reinforce the message, but they can modify it and change its meaning.
 


 
the wink indicates that what is said should not be taken seriously,
 


 
steadfast gaze signifies hostile intent,
 


 
- the panoramic view involves all the interlocutors so that everyone feels concerned by the message.
 


 
Facial expressions may be intended, such as a smile, but are often uncontrolled and involuntary (wide-eyed in amazement, frowning in anger, etc.). They are an integral part of our overall behavior.
 


 
The look is certainly the part of the body that expresses most of us, "the eyes are the mirror of the soul" (J. Cocteau).
 


 
It is essential to take into account facial expressions and body movements to avoid misunderstandings.
 


 
 
 













 
Body language in the workplace
 


 
 
 


 
We tell each other without words. Even if this sentence drips with romance, it contains truths that have been scientifically proven. According to a study by the psychologist Albert Mehrabian on the factors involved in persuasion, 55% of the effectiveness of a speech is based on body language, followed at some distance by the tone (38%), and finally, the choice of words (7%). Therefore, we can not allow ourselves to pay attention to our appearance, our attitudes, and gestures, because others do it very well!
 


 
Tips for mastering body language in the workplace
 


 
 
 


 
1. When talking or having to deal with an angry colleague.
   The goal is to engage with this angry person to relieve tension. Your body can help you in the following ways:
 




 
Use physical expressions that convey active listening and understanding. For example: Bend the upper body slightly toward the person or bring your hand to your chin while you nod.
 


 
Put your hands up with your palm: this shows honesty. Otherwise, you convey an attitude of control or superiority (or extinguish a fire with gas?).
 




 
2. during a job interview.
 Prove that you are very excited about this opportunity and willing to give everything in the selection process.
 




 
Bend your body towards the person you are talking to so that you are in the moment of your full attention and interest.
 


 
Use the mirror technique to create an affinity with the hiring manager. In other words, try to imitate his gestures, of course, or better, do not stop your automatic imitation. This is a way to show that you share values
 
and opinions.
 


 
Hold and seek eye contact. If you do not, the reason may be nervousness, and you may not be very trustworthy and competent.
 




 
There are gestures that hurt you, and they should definitely keep you locked up in crucial moments:
 




 
Holding your hands on your hips, with your arms bent, gives you aggression and impatience.
 


 
Constantly looking at the clock, or rubbing your eyes, ears, or cheeks, indicate a lack of interest and boredom concerning the conversation, the situation, or the conversation partner.
 


 
Always cross your legs or arms makes you seem aloof and uninvolved. But you should not sit with your legs apart ... That does not look decent and not professional.
 


 
Playing with your hair or constantly repeating a gesture reflects insecurity.
 




 
3. When you meet with a potential customer.
 Here are the previous tips, but also you should ... smile! After all, you build a new relationship. As with everything in life, do not overdo it. Otherwise, you might think you are flirting.
 


 
4. When presenting a project.
 




 
Turn to your audience. Do not turn your back on him! The projector does not decide, has no feelings, and does not need to understand anything. Show who all your services are for.
 


 
Do not look at the monitor all the time. It's your project, right? So, show that even if a Tyrannosaurus pops up suddenly and confuses the screen with chewing gum, you can perfectly continue the presentation.
 


 
Do not stay stiff in one place throughout the presentation. Use your movements to amplify your speech and show that you are in your element.
 




 
The eyes capture 82% of the world. It is up to us to try to be positive about what we see!
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER EIGHT
 


 
How To Analyze People
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
It can be really difficult to understand what a person is thinking, to feel his feelings and mood. Without certain knowledge and skills, most likely, you will not be able to do this. But, there are some effective methods that will help you understand how to learn to analyze people, understand them, and see a person as a whole as a person.
 


 
First, you must start with yourself. You must realize who you are. It may be the most difficult for a person to understand himself. What do you want from life? What are you striving for, and what do you want to achieve? What are your positive aspects, and what else do you need to work on? If you can understand yourself, you will already take a big step towards learning how to analyze people.
 


 
What is the nature of the person you are trying to analyze?
 


 
We are all social beings, and everyone has basic needs. These are safety, the need for communication, self-realization, physiological and social needs - who we are in society. Once you understand the basic needs of a person, you can better understand him. Next, pay attention to its nature. What is the nature of the person you are trying to analyze? How to determine this? Pay attention to what he does. By what a person does, much can be said about his character. To analyze a person, you have to ask yourself a couple of questions:
 




 
What motivates a person to engage in his activities?
 


 
Does he or she have an active social life?
 


 
What does this person need, and what does he need?
 




 
When you ask these questions, you can come to some conclusion. If a person is active in society, this may mean he cares for others and is socially active. For example, I have a friend who supports several charities, helping people. His social life is about helping others. He has many friends and an active social life. He does everything with sincerity and pure heart. That person has a good soul. He is always ready to help and quite conscious. He understands that not only money, power, and recognition are important in our world, but also many other human values.
 


 
Pay attention to what the person says
 


 
To learn to analyze people, you must pay attention to some small things. What is the person you want to read talking about? Is he talking about his problems, or is he trying to learn more about you and interested in you? Follow his communication. Does he behave confidently and communicate openly, or does not he talk comfortably with you and does not know what to say? A person who communicates a lot can be told about his personality. Confident, self-sufficient people speak quietly and meaningfully. And if a person is hurried and jumps from phrase to phrase, it means he is hiding something, or he is simply not interested in you.
 


 
Pay attention to body language
 


 
The next way to learn how to analyze people is the language of the human body. This will help you see his inner mood and state. People who have a good life, as a rule, walk and behave quite happily. They are very active, radiating energy. Instead, people walking with a drooping look and head bowed. They are shy, secretive. Such people generally do not have their own opinions and are introverts.
 


 
If a person seems negative to you, he cannot achieve something, and his life does not go well. If our basic needs are not met, we can respond in various ways. One is that it becomes evil and aggressive. See if he is a loner or has a certain social circle? If a person communicates with two or three acquaintances, for some reason, he may feel comfortable with them. We tend to love people who are more like us.
 


 
When a person communicates with many people, it can be assumed that he is open and friendly. And if he is inside himself and communicates a little, he may not feel the need to communicate with others. Why will someone not communicate with someone? This may have several reasons. One is a person who may not feel they belong to these people. Another reason may be his social fear.
 


 
Ask the person more questions.
 


 
There are some reasons why a person behaves in a certain way or does something. You can learn more about a person if you are sincerely interested in him. When you understand what the motives and goals of a person are, it will be much easier for you to analyze him. Yes, not all people will be open with you. But even in the case when a person will move away from questions, it will be possible to conclude that he is secretive and afraid to show his true self.
 


 
To know about cultural differences
 


 
To learn how to analyze people, you need to know and understand their culture. A person can behave in a certain way because his culture is different from yours. When you are trying to analyze someone, it is important to pay attention to where he was born. When you learn a little more about where a person is from, you can have a certain idea of
 
his personality, manner of communication, and behavior.
 


 
 
 













 
How to Influence People
 
 


 
 
 


 
When we need to convince someone, we can use many techniques. If we make a good proposal, we have valid arguments, and what we want to do is a win-win. It will be easy to convince our interlocutor of our interests.
 


 
But apart from the content, there are some small tricks that we can use to influence the people we talk to and achieve our goals.
 


 
The way we talk, our attitude, and know how to handle the conversation can be the key to getting a favorable response to our interest.
 


 
1. Smile
 


 
A smile on your face is the first thing we have to do if we want to influence people. When someone smiles, conveys happiness, and well, and we all like to feel good.
 


 
When a proposal is made with a smile on our face, we are more predisposed to accept what they are asking.
 


 
2. Take advantage of fatigue.
 


 
When we are tired, we don't feel like arguing, and we are more willing to say yes (even if they leave us alone).
 


 
Cults know this perfectly. Therefore, the sessions where you "brainwash" are always long and exhausting. They know that a tired person has low defenses and is more willing to obey and accept how true what you are saying.
 


 
3. Make the ball
 


 
The ego is one of the weak points of all people. We all like to be told how good we are, and we are more willing to serve a person who makes us feel good.
 


 
It is not easy to flatter without it noticing. So, if you're beating someone to convince him, do it subtly and credibly.
 


 
4. Tell him many times YES
 


 
If you want to influence someone, let them say yes. When in a conversation, we say many times, yes, our brain understands that we are in tune with the person with whom we speak and the inertia of responding that if it can be a good tool to get us to respond affirmatively to what we want.
 


 
 Cold-door commercials are one of the strategies they use very often:
 




 
Do you want the best for your family?     Yes
 


 
Do you like to save on the fixed expenses of your home?    Yes
 


 
Do you live in this address? Yes
 


 
Do you like things to work correctly? Yes
 


 
Do you want me to make a special offer for you? Yes 
 




 
Make the ball and let us say many times IF they are two of the basic techniques of commercials (another day I will write on this subject).
 


 
5. Do not take the reason from your interlocutor 
 


 
Showing someone who is not right in what he says and that if you have, it is a good strategy to feel good and have the feeling of "having won the argument."
 


 
But it is not a good strategy to influence another person.
 


 
When we argue, most of the time, we end up curling ourselves even more in the position we defend.
 


 
If you want to influence another person, you better not discuss and ignore the negative arguments of the other person (this strategy is one used by all politicians in our country).
 


 
6. Extra trick: Use your voice well
 


 
The voice is a key element when it comes to influencing others.
 


 
There are four aspects of the voice to consider; these four elements, which make us perceive a certain voice differently, are; intensity, tone, timbre, and duration.
 


 
On the union of all parties, it will depend on a voice being more or less persuasive. The ideal formula to be persuasive with our voice would be like that; medium-strong intensity, serious tone, open bell, and medium-fast duration
.
 


 
 
 













 
How to Analyze Your 
Relationship?
 


 
 
 


 
While relationships are complex, they do not necessarily have to be difficult as long as they are evaluated. For them to be healthy, it is enough that both members work their insecurities, separate previous bad experiences, and strengthen empathy.
 


 
Being affectionate, communicating correctly with our partner, having a good level of sexual desire, developing the capacity for consensus, being willing to solve problems, respect each other, set goals together, and balance our individuality with life as a couple are the main factors that The Nicolás Moreno Clinical Psychology Center, in Granada-Spain, underlines the fundamentals for a couple to succeed.
 


 
Now, regardless of the time we have with our partner, it is important that we periodically evaluate our relationship in order to analyze the positive and negative before a small problem grows and crises. Prevention is always better than regret.
 


 
Relationships are dynamic experts say that this dynamism is that which allows the courtship or marriage to evolve and its members to grow personally and as a team. Every union implies agreements that are by no means static, so permanent evaluation can help us reconsider approaches we may have made at the beginning of our relationship, but they are no longer working.
 


 
The doctor and counselor of couples, Monsita Nazario, argue that assessing the relationship can ensure the health and future of the union. It even emphasizes that the direction taken by divergence and incompatibility, which appear over time, must be noted to make sound decisions regarding life in common.
 


 
Key points to assess the relationship
 


 
The specialist highlights three key points to consider when assessing the relationship:
 


 
Periodic Analysis:
 


 
Constantly assessing the relationship allows us to raise awareness, stay alert, and make life a couple a priority. Nazario recommends that this be done daily, because knowing that we are in the process of constant evaluation, we strive to do better and better and avoid becoming demotivated, neglected, and tired. "Failure to follow up on the processes damages them and puts them at risk of failure," he says. Besides, it highlights that the periodic analysis should be considered as one of the fundamental agreements at the beginning of the relationship to be able to tackle the reasons that lead to distancing and separation in time.
 


 
Reinventing yourself is the key:
 


 
The success of a relationship is not proportional to how long it lasts; In fact, many years of life as a couple do not guarantee the thorough knowledge of both members. 
 


 
Getting to know each other is a lifelong process, so the expert ensures that the key to happy couples is to grow and reinvent themselves based on the stage in which the relationship is because conflicts cannot be avoided but if they reduce its impact with a timely evaluation. 
 


 
To love us is to be able to transform ourselves, and each couple will do it differently; Of course, the doctor emphasizes that the transformation must occur consciously and by both members to avoid dysfunctionality.
 


 
Love Maps:
 


 
Loving someone implies knowing him, so the precise counselor is essential that the couple knows each other deeply: their tastes, history, concerns, manias, ways of thinking, and postures on different issues. 
 


 
They are the so-called “love maps,” and you have to keep them up to date to handle the circumstances presented to us more effectively. In our evaluation, Nazario proposes an essential question: “What would it be like to be married to someone like me?” The answer will undoubtedly make us more aware of the weaknesses and strengths we have and how to take care of them. 
 


 
Likewise, the consultant warns of the existence of certain actions classified as “horsemen of the apocalypse”: criticism, complaint, contempt, defensive attitude, and evasion, which are present in every relationship, so our task is to warn them, stop them, and neutralize them. 
 


 
To do this, it is recommended to write monthly the purpose of life in common to stay connected.
 


 
On the other hand, the psychologist Miriam Martín invites us to ask ourselves the following questions to evaluate our relationship: Does this link add or subtract us? Does it help us to be better and develop as people? Does it limit us and generate negative emotions? Based on them, we can measure how well we are going and decide what changes to make.
 


 
Keys to a healthy relationship
 


 
There are no partner schools, but there are many tools to learn, even informally, to have a relationship that provides us with well-being. That is why we include some keys to make this experience healthy:
 




 
Avoid emotional dependence to maintain high self-esteem. Depending on the tastes and needs of the couple promotes distancing, that is why we must preserve our autonomy and maintain interest in work, friends, and hobbies. All this will balance the personal space with the shared one and will provide stability.
 


 
Respect the privacy of the other, accept their decisions and way of being. Do not manipulate or pretend that he or she changes, and it may be better to change ourselves, especially the perspective from which we see what bothers us about our partner.
 


 
To be authentic, that is, not to be permanently trying to show our best version because it is unreal and more than generating closeness with the other will end up chasing it away. The true interest of every human being is when we feel we have access to it when it shows us its hidden aspects and emotions without shame.
 


 
Communicating assertively is essential. Good communication can make a discussion constructive. We must talk a lot with our partner to strengthen the relationship and learn to negotiate without reproach or evasion. Listening carefully, understanding your point of view, letting you see that we understand what you have said, and expressing our point of view in a friendly tone will allow us to find consensual solutions with which we will both win.
 


 
Take care of the details to maintain the relationship. Say and do what at first generated so much happiness in the other and that due to lack of time or routine, we sometimes leave aside. Gestures should not diminish over time, on the contrary.
 


 
Respect and trust the other. Jealousy will only bring us discomfort and make the relationship fail. A little security is not over.
 


 
Have common goals that generate interest and enthusiasm. This will avoid the monotony and boredom that both deteriorate life as a couple.
 


 
Share quality time in doing what we enjoy together.
 


 
Maintain social relationships to enrich our life and revitalize it.
 




 
Let us consider what works for us, for now, and we can evaluate ourselves and pay more attention to our relationship because it is one of the most important we have, and it is always worth cultivating.
 


 
Powerful Questions 
 


 
To analyze and strengthen your relationship:
 




 
What do you admire about your partner?
 


 
What do you thank your life partner?
 


 
What has your partner contributed to your personal or professional achievements?
 


 
What do you like about the way you are?
 


 
What goals do they have together in five years?
 


 
What things should improve in the relationship, according to your partner?
 


 
What behaviors on your part may be destabilizing the relationship?
 


 
What situations generate conflict between the two?
 


 
What should happen in the relationship, so that everything is much better?
 


 
What moments or behaviors would be worth recovering?
 


 
What agreements would you like to propose to your partner?
 


 
What has to happen for these common goals to be met?
 


 
What can you do differently with your partner today?
 


 
What recognition does your life partner deserve?
 


 
What love story do you want to tell your children about their parents?
 




 













 
CHAPTER NINE
 


 
Brainwashing
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The definition of brainwashing is very close to that of 'mind control.' This is an idea without a purely empirical foundation that implies that the will, thoughts, and other mental facts of individuals can be manipulated by persuasion techniques that would insert undesirable ideas into the 'victim' psyche. When we describe this definition, we see that it has a marked resemblance. The word 'say' is less optimistic.
 


 
While the notion of brainwashing is not entirely false, some scientific connotations of this common term have led many experts to dismiss it in favor of more modest. This has helped to use the word instrumentally in legal proceedings, especially in child custody conflicts.
 


 
Brainwashing, emotional coercion, and mental control are also known as mental control. In reality, all these words mean a mechanism that a group or entity deliberately uses to manipulate others to do what they want in their thinking. In most cases, these systemic procedures are performed without awareness of a person.
 


 
Sometimes, for a variety of reasons, we use mind control over ourselves. Self-hypnosis under this group. Through our informed agreement, we use this kind of mind management, on our part voluntary, to reinforce a good concept or alter our minds.
 


 
 
 


 
That is not the same as "mind control," though, as it requires brainwashing. Such phrases often mean a person's mind is systematically modified without realizing it, either in the agreement or even against his will.
 


 
These are immoral, coercive methods, and other means all designed to manipulate someone is mind. In these situations, they are understood as encouraging one person or group to take full control of other's thoughts and acts. When using the words "mind control" and "brainwashing," it is implied that similar techniques are used to gain control of another at the cost of the controlled individual.
 


 
It is important as brainwashing falls under the category of social impact. Because they use brainwashing to trigger emotional abuse in a victim. In a single social system, brainwashing and mind control is used to transform the way someone feels and perceives their values fully. Using different ways to change the perceptions, habits, and values of a person. The person's like a puppet doing whatever the manipulator wants.
 


 
 
 













 
Mind Control Brainwashing - 3 Common Ways it is Used to Manipulate Others
 


 
 
 


 
Mind control brainwashing is a mechanism where someone uses coercion and unethical tactics to convince others to obey the controlled person's wishes. Typically this phase occurs to the detriment of brainwashed humans. Many common names include coercive coercion, through change, and control of thought, among others. One way to use authoritarian coercion is by totalitarian regimes worldwide policies. Such governments are not shy about using force to get what they want, even though that force is disproportionate and immoral. We were known to succeed in indoctrinating their prisoners of war with various methods, including relentless propaganda and torture. 
 


 
These brainwashing techniques are also used in new religious movements. Many new religious groups that pop up are led by very charismatic individuals who possess extremely persuasive powers of persuasion, as well as the ability to brainwash others by different strategies, one of the key ones being alienation from family and friends who are not fellow members. In being separated from others, you are more deeply rooted in the values of the party. 
 


 
A final scenario is less serious, but it can still lead to disastrous consequences when taken to extremes. Members of fraternities and sororities are often abused and forced to suffer numerous forms of psychological and physical abuse and humiliation to become part of the community. By destroying the ego by submitting to a higher group authority or performing different actions that are often humiliating, the person begins to establish a very strong group identity and loyalty. Sometimes, the extreme nature of some of the aspiring members 'physical tests can cause severe bodily injury and even death. This brainwashing technique leads leaders of other brotherhoods to do things they wouldn't do if not for group pressure driving them along. 
 


 
 
 













 
Brainwashing: Coercive Persuasion Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
Some films are warning us about brainwashing, including those showing how Vietnam's communists brainwashed American soldiers. But far from these films being dramatized, brainwashing is best understood if we call it coercive coercion, which is manipulating, pushing. This method of persuasion is the strongest and most intrusive of religions, totalitarian governments, terrorist groups, and kidnappers, among others. 
 


 
Washing a person's brain, or more accurately applying coercion, is not easy. To alter an individual's entire belief system, thought, feeling, and behaving, many strategies must be used. These manipulative manipulation methods can be classified into four types: physical methods, emotional techniques, cognitive techniques, and techniques that induce dissociative states.
 




 
Social techniques
 




 
In this case, techniques are used that are intended to manipulate and control the environment of the person being brainwashed. The goal is to weaken the resistance of the person in question, making it easier to convince him. Some of the coercive persuasion techniques that anyone can use are:
 




 
Insulation:
 this makes it a lot easier to brainwash someone. It means that someone is mentally, socially, and physically cut off from the rest of the world. 
 


 
Information management:
 manipulating and checking the information that someone receives is a form of isolation. The less information a person has, the fewer options he has to choose from. As a result, his critical mind is very limited.
 


 
Creating a state of existential dependence
: this means making someone believe that his existence depends entirely on someone else. Usually, that person is a kind of leader. In practice, it means: fully meeting one's primary and secondary needs until he develops complete dependence.
 


 
Psychophysical weakening:
 some types of physical weakening are associated with psychological weakening. This, in turn, leads to a weakened ability to resist persuasion techniques.
 




 
 
 




 
Emotional techniques
 




 
Motivations are emotionally conditioned
.
 So if you can influence people's emotions, you can also influence their motivations and behavior.
 




 
Emotional activation of pleasure:
  charm and treat someone well. People use this technique to attract others and attract their attention.
 


 
Emotional activation of fear, guilt, and tension
: use rewards and punishment to induce emotional reactions such as fear, guilt, and anxiety. These emotions encourage dependence and submission.
 




 
 
 




 
Cognitive techniques
 




 
These methods are based on the two methods that we discussed above. A person who is physically weak and feels guilty is in an ideal brainwashing position.
 




 
Thoughtful in critical thinking:
 the offender shows the other why it is not wise to follow his thoughts. Because of this, he will suppress every thought he wants.
 


 
Use of deception and lies
: distorting reality by hiding, lying, or deceiving information.
 


 
A requirement for submission:
 Ensuring compliance with group ideas. Demand that the person obeys what the group decides. In other words: develop compliance and submission.
 


 
Group identity
: identity must be collective. As a result, people lose their individuality and accept group identity. As a result, people may lose their identities.
 


 
Attention control:
 manipulating what the person’s attention is focused on means that you can also make him pay attention to your persuasion methods.
 


 
Language control:
 speaking in a controlling way means that you are restricting your freedom. Skipping certain words or phrases is a way to avoid specific questions or ratings.
 


 
Change in the source of power.
 As soon as you violate someone’s principles of power, you expose him to totalitarian power. As a result, this power gains full power. Everyone else must obey him.
 




 
 
 













 
Brainwash Yourself to Higher Self-Esteem
 


 
 
 


 
Most people who come to me say, "I realized I need to improve my self-esteem, but I don't know how." Switching to high self-esteem is nothing you do overnight. There's no miracle cure. And I, as a self-esteem mentor, have no magic wand I can wave over you, so you instantly start loving yourself. 
 


 
Moving towards higher self-esteem means replacing the thoughts that fill your mind with new ones. Think about it, and your self-esteem depends on your feelings, the feelings you think about yourself. All the feelings you've ever felt about yourself have now developed into the sense of self-worth (or lack of self-worth) you're experiencing. 
 


 
It would be very easy if you could just buy a package of new thoughts at the pharmacy, or go to a surgeon who opened your brain, take out the old stuff, and bring some new fresh stuff in. Unfortunately, swapping your old mindset for a more resourceful approach will cost you time and energy. 
 


 
Think about how you got the thoughts that fill your everyday life now. You've been affected by your family, education, media, culture, etc. You've been brainwashed 24 hours a day since your birth! It may not take too long to start thinking more useful thoughts, but it may take a lot of time because you need to unlearn everything you've learned up to this point in your life.
 


 
The solution? Brainwash yourself with positive thoughts about yourself!
 


 
How? Ok, here are some techniques:
 




 
Write affirmations-Affirmations are the new things you have decided to say, for example, "I'm so happy and grateful that I have so many friends who love me," or "I feel and look so beautiful and sexy that I'm just irresistible." Put the statements anywhere you can recall them, on the fridge, in the car, on the bathroom mirror, on your bedside table, in your wallet... 
 


 
Stand before a mirror and praise yourself. Aim for at least 1 minute. Your brain builds new pathways between the optimistic words you say and the self-image. 
 


 
Stand before a mirror and smile (for at least one minute). This may sound much dumber than complimenting yourself, but it's nice to build brain paths between you and a good feeling. 
 


 
Build a music playlist that really cheers. Brainwash yourself with songs that you're amazing! It is a simple way to put new ideas into your mind. 
 


 
Write a list of things you've done well every day before you go to sleep. It will help you find the good things you do in your life. 
 


 
Hypnotizing yourself! Yeah, hypnosis works, and hypnosis CDs are designed to increase self-esteem. Look at the platform! 
 


 
Get a coach to help! I'd love to shower you with fresh, resourceful ideas and make sure they stick in your brain!
 




 













 
CHAPTER TEN
 


 
Understanding Persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Persuasion is the ability that people have to transmit ideas and that they are disseminated by those who act as recipients of them. This translates more effectively as the ability that human beings have through a relationship, to convince others. Persuasion is a tool that can be used in fields such as marketing, advertising, and commerce, basically sectors of the economy in which the public is sensitive to various interactions with environmental media and where the decision is the objective of who persuade
 


 
Let us elaborate on a scene in which a seller wants his products to be acquired by the buyers, these besides being useful, must be attractive and, in one way or another, more desirable than that of the competition. This is achieved with persuasion, which attracts customers by offering the best attributes of the product or service, effectively providing comfort to the buyer by relating the most promotional aspects to the most personal. Persuasion, in turn, generates competition and demand in the market, generating dynamism of intentions and offers that fosters the development of sustainable economies.
 


 
Another use of persuasion that we see in a society constantly is in the application of the law. In a trial, the lawyers, in addition to using the law as the main tool, use the elements in their favor and persuade the jury and the judge that they are valid to win the case.
 


 
We are always waiting for others who live in our environment to reproduce or share our ideas, even unintentionally, people seek to persuade others so that their ends are fulfilled. A wife who asks her husband to optimize expenses is trying to convince him that it is the best for both. Either way, each person's ideas will be interpreted as an intention for others to apply and build their ideas based on the initial idea. Persuasion can be so extreme that they can change the way a person thinks. It all depends on what the person who persuades another looks for.
 


 
 
 













 
Key elements of persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
To better understand the process by which one person or medium can influence another by changing their mind, it is necessary to take into account the key elements of the process, these being the issuing source, the receiver, the message itself, and the technique that It is used to transmit it.
 


 
1. Issuer
 


 
Regarding who transmits the information, the source that tries to persuade, two characteristics are taken into consideration when it comes to being or not being persuaded: its attractiveness and credibility. It has been shown in multiple experiments that we generally consider those individuals we perceive to be more reliable (partly because of the halo effect, in which we assume that someone who has a good quality will surely have others). This is the reason why men and women of great physical attractiveness, or well-valued celebrities, frequently appear in advertising in order to sell us a product.
 


 
However, the most influential feature of the source when it comes to persuading us is credibility, which is given to the level of competence of the source in the subject matter and the perceived sincerity.
 


 
2. Receiver
 


 
Concerning the recipient of the message, the main characteristics that affect the time of being influenced are the level of intelligence, self-esteem, and the level of involvement with the subject. 
 


 
It must be taken into consideration that the effect of the intelligence level should not be taken as a direct measure. It is not that who is more influential is less intelligent, but someone with higher intelligence will have more resources to question the arguments put forward in persuasion. By having a higher capacity to learn and use in real-time the information memorized, the way of a dialogue of the most intelligent people is more fluid and consistent, something that is reflected in the results they obtain when it comes to convincing.
 


 
With regard to self-esteem, we generally find that the lower self-esteem, the less likely we will consider our arguments as valid, more easily accepting those of others.
 


 
3. Message
 


 
Another of the main elements when it comes to persuading someone is the message itself. Several studies indicate that the fact of using a more rational or more emotional message will depend on the type of response you want to favor. It also affects the message incorporating elements that cause fear or a sense of threat: according to Rogers protection motivation theory, we will tend to seek and consider more certain words that allow us to minimize or avoid damage.
 


 
The fact that persuasion occurs more often with a closed or open message has also been investigated, indicating that it is generally better to leave a conclusion open to interpretation, although guided in the direction of which one wishes to persuade. This may be because, in this way, the listeners are more satisfied when they reach those conclusions, something they experience as if it had been a discovery made by themselves, without someone trying to impose an idea from outside.
 


 
 
 













 
Principles of Persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
1. Reciprocity
 


 
During his research, Robert Cialdini proved a principle that many already sensed by common sense. According to their research, people treat others the same way they are treated. So, for example, we tend to be kind to those who treat us kindly. That is where a great power lies: we can make a person appreciate us more or less over time.
 


 
Advertising makes use of this principle. The reason a brand sometimes offers its products "as gifts" is precisely the principle of reciprocity. They know that consumers appreciate this gesture and will become more brand loyal for this reason.
 


 
2. The scarcity principle
 


 
Robert Cialdini found that people tend to value more what they perceive as rare or exclusive. It doesn't matter if it's real or not. The rarer and unusual something is, the more it arouses our desire.
 


 
Advertising also takes advantage of this principle. It is the basis on which campaigns such as the “promotion for a few days” or “discount for the first 50 buyers” are built. And it usually works very well. On the other hand, a continuous succession of “last opportunities” for the same product dissipates this effect. We must deliver on our promise, as scarcity involves credibility.
 


 
3. The principle of authority
 


 
This principle states that people who have a position of leadership or notoriety enjoy greater credibility, among others. People tend to believe everything they say. We tend to be less critical of celebrities, for example.
 


 
That is why there is such a lucrative business around the so-called ‘influencer.’ Others identify with them and imitate them. In this case, we are less demanding about the consistency of what they represent, and we are more likely to believe what they say.
 


 
4. Commitment and consistency
 


 
Robert Cialdini says that the principle of commitment and consistency implies that people are more willing to take action, consistent with what is familiar. It is, therefore, important to adopt attitudes that create a commitment to your client and be consistent with the commitment made. Offer only what you can deliver. Keeping an old customer is easier than capturing new ones.
 


 
This principle of persuasion is widely applied in sales. To attract new customers, their behaviors and customs are studied to know what type of offer to make. If they are, for example, impulsive people, situations are generated that lead them to act impulsively to buy.
 


 
5. Consensus or social approval
 


 
This principle states that people tend to join the majority: they often see what others are doing to act accordingly. We usually accept the opinion of the majority. If many people believe something is right, we will believe it is right. If most believe that something is wrong, we will also believe that it is wrong.
 


 
Thus, in both business and politics, great efforts are made to "create trends." These trends are not always inspired by the right or reasonable elements. However, once they begin to “wave,” they are usually successful.
 


 
6. The principle of sympathy
 


 
This principle has to do with the so-called halo effect. It is related to the fact that the most physically attractive people have a greater persuasiveness. They are unconsciously associated with other positive values
 
, such as honesty and success. This effect also occurs with people who are sympathetic to attributes other than the physical.
 


 
Thus, advertising almost always uses stereotypes that generate this principle of sympathy. Usually, the models are beautiful or beautiful, or people who represent the appearance that arouses the identification or desire of the public.
 


 
 
 













 
Persuasion Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
Influencing and persuading are everyday tools of any project manager. It is therefore essential to know some "tools" that can be used for this purpose (mostly psychological):
 




 
Social Compatibility -
 “we decide what is right or not, depending on what others think is right” - how often does this come about when we are evaluating something they are presenting to us? The fact that we are presented with evidence or examples of the use of something that we are trying to persuade is halfway to being convinced to follow the same examples.
 


 
Agreement 
- “It is easier to get the person who wants to persuade to change their minds when we call on someone like him or her and respects and shares their opinions” - it is essential to create a platform of understanding where our opinions are shared by others, making it more comfortable to accept future ideas.
 


 
Empathy -
 “When you want to persuade, you want others to empathize with the idea. You want them to identify with it and to understand its situation, its motives, and emotions. And with empathy, they will tend to find their conclusions correct. ”- The more emotional the story and appealing to audience-like experiences to persuade, the higher the empathy and the more effective the persuasion.
 


 
Inconsistency
 - “It’s a stealthy persuasion strategy because it leaves the feeling of accomplishment” - small ideas are being implemented with the persuader accompanying the whole process, solving small problems step by step increases trust and strengthens the relationship, making easier to persuade a great idea.
 


 
To be appreciated
 - “ we accept the ideas of someone we like more easily than those of whom we are indifferent ” - it is essential to build a relationship with whom we want to persuade, are in small gestures of daily life, in sympathy, confidence, and trust. It is an excellent education that the relationship becomes closer and makes us more easily appreciated and, therefore, stronger in the art of persuasion.
 


 
Giving to receive
 - “when we give we unleash one of the most powerful ideas of human beings, and when we receive we feel obligated to repay ” - it's called the principle of reciprocity, and we all do it at some point in time.
 


 
Accountability
 - “One of the first lessons we learn in life is to keep our word” - getting the other to take responsibility for something is the first step to persuading.
 




 
 
 













 
Psychological Tricks to Increase Your Persuasive Power
 


 
 
 


 
1. Keep in mind that persuasion is different from manipulation.
 


 
To manipulate is to coerce someone into doing something that is not in their best interest. Persuasion, however, is the art of persuading people to do something that is in their interest and, on top of that, benefits you.
 


 
2. Evaluate context and time
 


 
The foundation for increasing your power of persuasion is context and the exact time. The first requirement sets a standard for what is acceptable and can be done, while the right timing makes your chances increase or decrease considerably. Trying to persuade your boss to raise you well when he is nervous or discussing an important issue is not a timely approach, right? Therefore, having this notion of timing is critical in the persuasion process.
 


 
3. Speak what people want to hear
 


 
You will not be able to persuade someone who has no interest in what you are saying. Generally, people are interested in themselves and spend most of their time thinking about money, love, or health. Therefore, to increase your power of persuasion, it is necessary to learn to talk to people about themselves consistently. Remember: If you show interest in what they want and say, you will always have your attention.
 


 
4. be persistent
 


 
Have you noticed that historical figures who persuaded large masses achieved this with much persistence in their messages? If you focus on demonstrating value and staying focused, you are much more likely to get what you want. When considering giving up, take a look at the example of Abraham Lincoln, who lost his mother, three children, a sister, his girlfriend, failed in business, and lost eight elections before being elected president of the United States.
 


 
5. Greet People Sincerely
 


 
We are all affected by compliments, whether we like it or not. And people tend to believe more in someone who gives them good feelings. So greet people when they deserve it, highlight their qualities and achievements. You will see how, practically and honestly, you will be able to persuade someone more easily. Investing in reciprocity is also very effective in this process; after all, when you do something for someone, that person feels compelled to do something for you too. This is part of the evolution of our DNA.
 


 
6. Create a sense of urgency
 


 
To increase your persuasive power, you need to create a sense of urgency in people by making them want something or take action right now. If you're not motivated enough to want something right now, you probably won't want it in the future. Therefore, invest in your power of persuasion in the present, betting on the urgency of things.
 


 
7. Value the images
 


 
Remember: what we see is more important than what we hear. Therefore, hone your first impressions to increase your persuasive power by increasing your ability to paint an image of experience you can offer others in the future.
 


 
8. be flexible and communicate simply
 


 
Have you noticed how flexible children are in their behaviors? They do everything they can to get what they want from their parents, and most of the time, they can. Therefore, adopting a rigid posture is never a good way to increase your persuasive power. Communicating is also another important point because the art of persuasion is to simplify something so that it is quick and simple to understand.
 


 













 
CHAPTER ELEVEN
 


 
How to Differentiate Between Persuasion and Manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Integrity of Persuasion
 


 
Although people manipulate and persuade them to get others to do what they want, persuasion is more honest. When you convince someone, you are only presenting your product, service, or argument to the best of your ability. You need not lie, omit information, or intimidate another person. Instead, the persuasion is right - the facts presented are real. It is giving people information they previously did not have clearly and logically in order to convince them by informing them rather than manipulating them.
 


 
 
 


 
Handling and False
 


 
To manipulate is to get people to do what you want in provocative ways that are truly lacking. So while someone can convince someone else by giving them facts, a handler creates or insinuates them. They do not care how they achieve their results as long as they reach; it means they are less concerned with the facts and the integrity of their processes.
 


 
Facts versus Emotions
 


 
Persuasion uses facts, while manipulation is based on emotions. This is because emotions are small, concrete, and harder to define than facts. If, for example, one car is 20% better than another, a salesperson would have to use manipulation to sell the second car to a financially shrewd customer. Instead of focusing on the raw facts (the mileage), the salesperson can manipulate the customer to sell the second car in terms of how it makes them feel.
 


 
Goals
 


 
Bob Berg, a successful salesman, speaker, and writer, describes persuasion and manipulation in terms of what the persuader (or manipulator) wants. Persuasion will serve the person he is persuading, and he will sell a product or service that he truly believes will add value to his client's business or life. A manipulator, on the other hand, focuses only on himself. He is not serving the other person, but instead makes him or her a target for his own ends. This is the main difference between convincing and manipulating.
 


 
 
 













 
Gestures to Increase Your Power of Persuasion
 


 
1. Know how to place yourself...
 


 
In negotiation, in the sales situation, or even during interactions, we tend to place ourselves in front of the interlocutor. Yet this positioning unconsciously creates a climate of confrontation and not of cooperation.
 


 
During interviews or certain negotiations, you sit in front of your interlocutor with a table that separates you. This use makes you face each other, face to face.
 


 
If you want to create a climate of sympathy, the ideal is to be side by side.
 


 
Take the example of some stores where vendors will approach you on the side and advise you by your side, both facing the product, rather than face to face. This also applies in seduction; an unknown person will be more easily approached on the side than in front.
 


 
2. Take your distance ... but not too much!
 


 
The distance you have towards the other person also plays a very important role. A radius of 45 centimeters corresponds to the intimate zone, from 1.30 meters to the personal zone, from 4 meters to the social zone. Beyond that, it is the public area.
 


 
If you do not know the person, the intimate zone is to be banned, except exceptional situation. You can use the personal area to create a climate of sympathy and trust with the person. If, for example, you are speaking to a group, do not hesitate to move to be close to everyone, and give each person importance.
 


 
The best example is the situation of debate between several people. It is often more appropriate to place everyone in a circle rather than face to face to avoid face-to-face confrontation.
 


 
3. Use the touch well ... without overdoing it!
 


 
An application accompanied by physical contact with the person to whom you are applying is rarely refused. Touch, well used, creates excellent sympathy.
 


 
Do not hesitate to support your speech with slight pressure on your arm or shoulder.
 


 
However, there is a rule for touching the hierarchy. In a professional context, it is the superior who has the right to touch and not the opposite. Again, it depends on the people in front of you and the context. Everyone does not have the same "tactile" relationship with others. Many elements come into play: education, environment, culture, values, etc.
 


 
Generally, you feel immediately if you can afford it with the person in front of you or not. It's a question of feeling during interaction and especially context.
 


 
However, do not hesitate to use it in an informal climate and abuse it in seduction.
 


 
4. Imitation: the key to success
 


 
The famous synchronization technique, which you most certainly know, is the most powerful in terms of influence. We love those who look like us!
 


 
A person will feel more in tune with you if you synchronize on his gestures, like a mirror.
 


 
Be careful, and it's not about making a monkey. You're just going to adopt the same postures and the same attitude as the other. If he crosses his arms, do the same, if he scratches his head, imitates a few seconds later ... but do it in a discreet and natural way, of course.
 


 
Likewise, the other person will tend to adopt the same attitude as you:
 




 
In front of a warm person, you will be warm,
 


 
Facing a cold person, you will be neutral,
 


 
Faced with a tense person, you will be tense,
 


 
If the person speaks loudly, speak,
 


 
If the person speaks slowly, speak slowly.
 




 
Short. You understood. By synchronizing with each other, you get in tune with him. This is an indispensable technique well known in NLP and influence. Use and abuse!
 


 
5. Do not close the doors
 


 
Many gestures cut off communication. The gestures to banish are:
 




 
Cross arms and legs
 


 
Look elsewhere or focus on something other than the other party
 


 
Put your hands in your pocket
 


 
place your hand in front of your mouth while talking
 


 
Carry an object and put it between you and the other
 




 
Also, avoid distracting or parasitic gestures that divert attention from the other:
 




 
Play with an object in your hands
 


 
Scratching all the time
 


 
Play with your fingers
 


 
You're biting your nails
 


 
Parasitic mimicry
 




 
 
 













 
Persuasion Tactics to Influence Anyone in The Most Effective Way
 


 
 
 


 
Tactical Persuasion # 1: Start your discussion on the right track.
 


 
One of the biggest mistakes people make in persuading them is that they start talking about a topic or situation that the other person doesn't know or doesn't know yet.
 


 
I have a friend who usually dives in the middle of a story or topic, which leaves me (and I think many other people) have no idea what he's talking about. It is essential to start your discussion at a point that people can relate to, preferably from the beginning, unless you are sure you already know the basics of the discussion topic.
 


 
Persuasion Tactic # 2: Be clear in conveying your message.
 


 
When you say, "He's angry," do you mean he's angry, or are you crazy? Whenever you say or write something vague or that may lead to miscommunication, it is strongly recommended that you change the words to convey a clear message.
 


 
Persuasion Tactic # 3: Summarize or overview the big picture.
 


 
This is vital when it comes to something that takes a little (or longer) to understand. This way, they can better relate the discussion to the overall scenario and "absorb" what you are saying.
 


 
Persuasion Tactic # 4: Be Humble
.
 


 
Never brag or be arrogant because it's a big detour. The other side may think (in your mind) that he is better than you, and you will simply hurt his ego.
 


 
You can even pretend not to know the things you already know if it gives you an advantage in convincing you. Give him the impression that you are an ally and do not compete with him.
 


 
Persuasion Tactic # 5: Pay attention to what is said rather than what you will say next.
 


 
This can be a little difficult to do initially. This is why it is essential to practice and improve your persuasion skills until it becomes part of you. When listening, do not interrupt while they speak. Wait a second or two before speaking. Avoid changing the subject as this indicates your disinterest.
 


 
Persuasion Tactic # 6: Choose the right time
.
 


 
When you are not in the mood or pressed for time, your persuasion efforts may fall on deaf ears because they will not pay attention to you.
 


 
Ask first if you can have a few minutes of your time. If they say this is not a good time, ask for a schedule that suits your plan.
 


 
Persuasion Tactics # 7: Never disrespect anyone
.
 


 
Beware of the body signals you are giving. You may be pouting, breathing heavily, shaking your head, or rolling your eyes without realizing that you are offending others.
 


 
 
 













 
Persuasive Communication and Interpersonal Relationships. How Does It Help Us?
 


 
 
 


 
The persuasion - manipulation- cannot be very useful in our relationships, both professional and personal. Who dominates persuasive communication determines the ideas that are taken into account and those that stay in the way?
 


 
Think of running, and the question is not whether you know how to run or not; The question is whether your way of running allows you to win races. And in our day to day, we aim to win some. Have you ever wondered how you can conquer a boy? Would you like to be an attentive person? Have you ever been told that it seems that you are not listening? If you have answered any question, yes, this post interests you.
 


 
One of the factors that influence these issues is the type of persuasive communication. But what do we mean by compelling communication?
 


 
Persuasion attempts to modify a person's behavior, attitude, or behavior, directly influencing their intentions, beliefs, or motivations. Fleeing always from manipulation or disrespect, persuasive communication is a subtle and healthy way to influence the thinking of the listener.
 


 
Personally, an emotional discussion is easily recognizable in which two people try to convince the other person based on feelings. In the field of business, the most rational methods are often abused. It is important to know the right measure between both methods and combine them so that persuasive communication is effective.
 


 
We may not be aware of this, but communicating is the behavior of a social nature that we perform most throughout the day and, nevertheless, it is also the one over which we have less conscious control. Therefore, being aware of and making good use of this capacity can make a difference in our social relationships.
 


 
Characteristics of a person who uses persuasive communication:  
 


 
It gives confidence to the interlocutor
.  When we are interested in meeting someone, we want to show this interest in the best possible way. Before speaking without contributing, it is more coherent to listen carefully, avoid hesitation, and contradict. These are some of the bad practices that we carry out in these situations pretending to please or to imply that we are attentive. We need to show that we are people that can be trusted and, although it is not easy - especially in those situations in which we have just met the listener - we must develop skills that enhance this characteristic.
 


 
He has as much knowledge as possible.
  If you do not know the person, it is common for doubts and questions to arise. If you are interested in something specific, let them know by preparing the context and clarify, if necessary, why you are interested in knowing it. Having information that gives us knowledge about the other person is crucial to understand better the information that is transmitted to us and return it
 


 
Listen
. Much of the art of persuasion lies in the ability to actively listen to the other person and discover their needs and concerns. Ask questions
 
about the content, paraphrase the information that has been transmitted to you, emphasize what has caught your attention.
 


 
Be empathetic.
  Concerning the previous point, we must also show the interlocutor that we understand his point of view and value it, although this does not mean submitting to all his requests, but rather seeking a meeting point where both parties win. The operation of persuasion is a win-win.
 


 
Take care of all communication channels.
  We must put so much care in what we say, as in how we say it: our tone of voice, the movements, our appearance, the stage, or the chosen channel. These are factors that also influence the ability to persuade. Look at the other person, and sometimes with only this ability, we know how we are doing it!
 


 
 
 













 
Discover When You Are The Target
 


 
 
 


 
Are you the puppet of others? Learn the three steps to cut the threads that bind you to those who try to handle you...
 


 
I don't understand how it happens, but every time I meet my sister, I lose. When Lidia wants me to do something for her, she always succeeds! Again, I don't know how it happens, but does the situation unfold in a way that leaves me no choice but to do what she wants?
 


 
This is Francis' complaint, Lidia, his older sister, is a teacher in the art of manipulation. And Frank is not alone; Your sister's name can be substituted for a son, a husband, a mother-in-law, a colleague, or even a best friend. And is that there are people who, to get away with it, handle others as if they were puppets.
 


 
The manipulators, those skilled "puppeteers," know how to handle the strings of those who fall into their orbit to achieve their goals. Some do it consciously because their plan is coldly calculated; others act like this because it is the only way they know to get away with it. But everyone, without exception, can continue to work that way because they have a great partner. Guess who? The person who lets himself be manipulated. In many cases, she is not a victim, but a volunteer in that frustrating game. In other words: manipulation happens and persists because the manipulated allows it to happen.
 


 
Review your case. Perhaps you give in out of grief, out of a sense of obligation, because you fear offending that person or keeping the peace. Many times you feel that the circumstances have conspired in a way that leaves you no choice but, once again, to dance to the music you are playing (the most typical case is the vendor who warns you to act now! because the "wonderful" offer ends in five minutes). You end up feeling frustrated, irritated, exhausted, and full of resentment. The truth is that your relationships with these "puppeteers" are not the best. Also, how much time, money, resources, and peace of mind have you lost in the hands of the manipulators!
 


 
But is there a light at the end of this tunnel? The good news is that while you are responsible for what happens, in the same way, you can take control of your life and cut the threads that tie you to the manipulator. Here are three steps to achieve it.
 




 
Recognize The Game 
 




 
Some victims of manipulation feel uncomfortable after dealing with one of these specimens but cannot identify exactly why. As Francis says, "I don't know how, but my sister always gets me to do what she wants."
 


 
That is why the first step to cut the threads that tie you to the manipulator is to recognize what your game is. In other words: discover what weapons he uses to wield you. Do you employ the penalty? "I have not had as good luck in life as you." Maybe it controls you with guilt feelings. "If you don't help me, my children, your nephews! Will go bankrupt." Or he presents you with the fait accompli, believing that "it is better to ask for forgiveness than to ask permission." Example: "I took the liberty of taking this from your home." You must know their strategies so that you are prepared and not taken by surprise. «I discovered that my sister's tactic is to use the penalty. Does she play the unhappy, plagued by bad luck? And I always fall, "admits Francis. Once you recognize this person's modus operandi, take the next step.
 


 
2. Discover Your «Buttons» 
 


 
The manipulators have an effective secret: they use the appropriate tactics for each person because they know which one works with each individual. With one is the feeling of guilt, while with another, it is a pain; with some, it is vanity (the manipulator pretends to be incompetent to be rescued, making the rescuer feel important - without realizing that he has been used) or even fear of divorce, dismissal, abandonment or ruin.
 


 
What is your Achilles heel? Discover the «buttons» that you have, and that press you to operate as if you were a robot. When you determine that you always fall out of grief, vanity, or because you don't know how to act when you are presented with a fait accompli, stop. Discuss why you have that particular "button" and what your fear is if you don't budge. Are they realistic? Or are you allowing yourself to be influenced by the "puppeteer"? Is it fair with yourself that you feel influenced by the “puppeteer? And that you think like this? How does it affect you or harm you? And what effect does it have on your relationship with that person? Do you want to keep the threads that bind you to the «puppeteer»? If you want to cut them and be free, continue to the next step.
 


 
3. Modify Your Behavior
 


 
Now that you know what tactics these people use to manipulate you and you recognize why you fall into the trap, you should modify your behavior.
 


 
-
Recognizes tampering
 


 
-Don't be rushed.
 Take all the time, and you need to assess the situation and determine how you want to respond. 
 


 
-Mentally prepare yourself for everything you will feel in those moments:
 grief, fear, guilt, and anxiety. Let those feelings flood you? And pass, like a wave that envelops you and then drifts away. Remember: the "puppeteer" uses them precisely because they are effective. Accept the possibility that some people will stray from you or that some relationships will radically change. But if you are clear that none related to being based on manipulation is positive, you will be at peace with that possibility. 
 


 
-Expresses your preference or your position with kindness, but with total firmness.
 If the person insists, be consistent, since it is you who will teach others how they can be with you, simply by the treatment you allow. Be prepared to repeat the same thing a thousand times, and for the "puppeteer" to find other tactics to handle you. Again: be consistent. The moment you stop accepting manipulation, the person will understand that their tactics do not work for you - and you will be free.
 


 
When You Should Seek Help
 


 
Sometimes the situation reaches levels that you cannot handle using the same tactics as if they work in normal situations. If you are dealing with an unstable person, physically abusing you, threatening suicide, or committing "crazy," take that situation very seriously and seek help urgently. Both you and others affected must be safe from a dangerous situation.
 


 
 
 













 
How to increase our capacity for persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
As John Ruskin said, "He who has the truth in his heart must never fear that his tongue lacks the power of persuasion. " Probably this is the best option. However, psychology has studied other theories that can be very useful in certain specific situations.
 


 
Before continuing, know that by persuasion, we mean the ability to seduce, convince, impress, or fascinate a person.
 


 
Some psychological theories to improve persuasion.
 


 
The term "persuasion" may have had some negative connotations in recent years. We live in a world of global uncertainty and strong consumerism, and we are continually bombarded with advertisements that appear to be convincing, whose motives are not necessarily as straightforward or simple as they should be, but far from belonging to worthy causes.
 


 
It is therefore important to make the difference between persuasion and manipulation, and the latter lies in honesty, which exists in persuasion but not in manipulation; from a persuasive perspective, the other knows, since this is how it was presented to him, that we are trying to convince him of something. In contrast, from a manipulative perspective, this information tends to be concealed, hidden.
 


 
Persuasion is understood as the ability to influence another person honestly, which gives a great advantage to the people who developed it. This is why it is important to know some theories that are valid over time.
 


 
The amplification hypothesis
 


 
A firm mentality, conveyed with confidence, is very immune to convincing. However, it softens if it is expressed with uncertainty. In this case, arguments based on an emotional basis are very resistant to logic, and vice versa.
 


 
So, by carrying this hypothesis promulgated by Clarkson, Tbormala, and Rucker to practice, your possibilities of influence will increase if the attitudes that you project have the same meaning as those of the interlocutor. This is precisely what gives a name to the theory: if you want to persuade someone on a sport-related subject and you both support the same sports team, for example, the power of your arguments will then be amplified.
 


 
The manipulation theory
 


 
This theory handles four maxims to seduce a person, ensuring that the information is as complete as possible, ensuring the authenticity of this information, its relevance to the subject matter, and presenting it in such a way that it can be fully understood by the 'other.
 


 
This hypothesis, which might sound very poor, is very rational and fair. As Ruskin said, if you have the facts on your hand, you don't have to think about not being convincing. However, it is necessary to be well prepared and to have great knowledge of the subject, as well as to know how to explain them, to convince someone.
 


 
However, it is difficult to defend yourself against such a strategy, especially if your interlocutor is skillful with words. It is necessary to observe his nonverbal language, which reflects contradictions between the assurance of his speech and what his gestures say. Having a little idea of
 
the subject, I can point out what the most fragile part of his argument is.
 


 
The priming theory
 


 
This psychological method of persuasion is commonly used in the advertisement. It is focused on the networks of interaction that we need to create in our minds. Indeed, when memory is activated, a concept or a feeling, in turn, allows the activation, for a limited time, of everything associated with this memory. For example, if you are told about the breakfasts of your childhood, it will be much easier afterward to make you buy milk.
 


 
The priming must be very subtle; thus, the person being stimulated is not aware of how he is influenced, even if he knows that he is in an influence brand since it is a publicity question. In another case, we would speak of manipulation.
 


 
The standard of reciprocity
 


 
This is a widely accepted social norm. It's as simple as giving something and waiting to be returned. It is not a voluntary act, but established and accepted by all.
 


 
Carrying out this standard can be as simple as saying thank you. Faced with the offer you make to him, you wait for your interlocutor to send you this courtesy, and reciprocity must be proportional to the type of service rendered.
 


 
The principle of scarcity
 


 
In a way, all human beings need to control their world. Having free will over what surrounds us is important. This is why when something is scarce, the desire to have it increases.
 


 
This psychological technique is also widely used in the advertising world; think of the famous slogans. So if you consider yourself a victim of this practice, ask yourself if you need the rare good, feeling, or emotion that is offered to you.
 


 
All of these psychological theories of persuasion go beyond the mere theoretical field. They have been put into practice and demonstrated to be functional. You have likely used them at some point in your life without even being aware of them.
 


 













 
CHAPTER TWELVE
 


 
What Is Deception
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Firstly, the concept of what disappointment is. Deception, along with subterfuge, mystification, deception, trick, and beguilement, is an act the agent uses to spread ideas about events that are falsehoods or only partial truths. 
 


 
Deception includes many things like concealment, disguise, diversion, sleight of hand, deception, and dissimulation. The agent will monitor the subject's mind because the subject trusts them. The item may believe what the agent says and might even base plans and build their life on the things the agent told them. 
 


 
Unless the agent follows the deception procedure, the statements they told the subject will be false. Trust can easily be lost if the issue finds out, which is why the agent must be talented at the deception process and good at turning things around if they want to proceed with their subject. 
 


 
Deception also occurs in connection, and it may contribute to feelings of mistrust and deception between the two partners in the relationship. This is because deceit breaks most relationship laws and is often seen to harm the perceptions that come with the relationship. 
 


 
Many people hope to have a real conversation with their partner; if they knew that their partner is manipulative, they would have to learn how to use misdirection and deception to get the honest and truthful details they need. 
 


 
The faith will also leave the relationship, making it difficult to bring the relationship back to where it once was. 
 


 
The topic will also doubt the statements the agent told them, questioning whether the story was real or something made up. Because of this new mistrust, most relationships end until the subject finds out the agent's deception.
 


 
Types of Deception
 


 
Deception is a form of communication that relies on omissions and lies in order to convince the subject of the world that best fits the agent. Since there is communication involved, there will also be several different types of deception that could be occurring. According to the Interpersonal Deception Theory, five different types of deception are found. The five main forms of deception include:
 


 
 
Lies:
 this is when the agent makes up information or gives information that is completely different from what is the truth. They will present this information to the subject as fact, and the subject will see it as the truth. This can be dangerous since the subject will not realize that they are being fed false information; if the subject knew the information was false, they would not likely be talking to the agent, and no deception would occur.
 


 
Equivocations:
 this is when the agent will make contradictory, ambiguous, or indirect statements. This is done to lead the subject to get confused and do not understand what is going on. It can also help. The agent to save face if the subject comes back later and tries to blame them for the false information.
 


 
Concealments:
 this is one of the most common types of deception that are used. Concealments are when the agent omits information that is relevant or important to the context, intentionally, or they engage in any behavior that would hide information that is relevant to the subject for that particular context. The agent will not have directly lied to the subject, but they will have made sure that the important information that is needed never makes it to the subject.
 


 
 Exaggeration
: this is when the agent will overstate a fact or stretch the truth a little bit in order to turn the story the way that they would like. While the agent may not be directly lying to the subject, they are going to make the situation seem like a bigger deal than it is, or they may change the truth a little bit so that the subject will do what they want.
 


 
Understatements an understatement
 is the exact opposite of the exaggeration tool in that the agent is going to downplay or minimize aspects of the truth. They will tell the subject that an event is not that big of a deal when, in fact, it could be the thing that determines if the subject gets to graduate or gets that big promotion. The agent will be able to go back later and say how they did not realize how big of a deal it was, leaving them to look good and the subject to look almost petty if they complain.
 


 
 
 













 
Main Components of Deception
 


 
 
 


 
While it may be difficult to determine which factors show when deception is occurring, some components are typical of deception. Often the subject will not realize that these components have occurred unless the agent has told an outright lie or been caught in the act of deceiving. These are components that will be recognized later on if the agent is using the process of deception in the right way. The three main components of deception include camouflage, disguise, and simulation.
 


 
Camouflage
 


 
The first component of deception is camouflage. This is when the agent is working to hide the truth in another way so that the subject will not realize that they are missing the information. Often this technique will be used when the agent uses half-truths when they are telling information. 
 


 
The issue will not recognize that the camouflaging has occurred until later when these truths are revealed in some way. The agent will be skilled in camouflaging the fact so that it is challenging for the subject to find out about the deception by chance.
 


 
Disguise
 


 
Disguise is another component that can be found in the process of deception. When this occurs, the agent is working to create an impression of being something or somebody else. 
 


 
This is when the agent is hiding something about themselves from the subject, such as their real name, what they do for a job, who they have been with, and what they are up to when they go out. 
 


 
This goes further than just changing the outfit that someone wears in a play or a movie; when the disguise is used in the process of deception, the agent is trying to change their whole persona in order to trick and deceive the subject.
 


 
There are several examples that can illustrate the use of disguise in the process of deception. The first is in relation to the agent disguising themselves, usually as another person, so that they are not recognizable. 
 


 
The agent may do this to get back into a crowd of people that do not like them, change their personalities to make someone like them, or for another reason to further their goals. 
 


 
In some cases, the word disguise can refer to the agent disguising the true nature of a proposal in the hopes of hiding an effect or motivation that is unpopular with that proposal. Often this form of disguise is found in propaganda or political spin.
 


 
Disguise can be harmful because it is hiding the true nature of what is going on. If the agent is hiding who they are from the subject, it can be challenging for the item to determine who they really are. 
 


 
When information is withheld from the subject, it clouds the way that they can think since they do not have the right information to make logical choices. While the issue may believe that they are making reasonable choices of their own free will, the agent has taken away crucial information that may change the subject’s mind.
 


 
Simulation
 


 
The third component of deception is known as simulation. This consists of showing the subject information, which is false. There are three techniques that can be used in the simulation, including distraction, fabrication, and mimicry.
 


 
 In mimicry or the copying of another model, the agent will be unconsciously depicting something similar to themselves. They may have an idea that is similar to someone else’s, and instead of giving credit, they will say that it is all theirs.
 


 
This form of simulation can often occur through auditory, visual, and other means. Fabrication is another tool that the agent may use when using deception. What this means is that the agent will take something that is found in reality and change it so that it is different. 
 


 
They may tell a story that did not happen or add in embellishments that make it sound better or worse than it was. While the core of the story may be real, yes they did get a bad grade on a test, it is going to have some extra things put in such as the teacher gave them a bad grade on purpose. The reality is that the agent didn’t study, and that is why they got the wrong grade in the first place.
 


 













 
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
 


 
The Role of Defence in 9 Steps
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
To avoid falling victim to manipulators, you have to build your defenses so that you are prepared for any manipulative strategies that they may try to use on you. The best way to build your defenses is by taking steps to improve your self-esteem and your willpower. However, as a point of caution, you should be very careful about how you build your defenses because you don’t want to create restrictions that will keep you from living a fulfilled life. 
 


 
 
 


 
For example, as you try to guard against manipulation, you can’t act out of fear. You can’t hide from the world just to avoid scenarios where someone might want to take advantage of you. Remember that the world is full of people with dark personality traits who may harbor malicious intentions, so acting out of fear won’t protect you from anyone. In fact, it will just make you more of a target. As you build your defenses, make sure that start on the premise that you are willing to confront manipulators head on, and you will never run away or recoil. If you act out of fear, you lose by default. 
 


 
 
 


 
The steps to raise self-esteem: To help you build your defenses, we will discuss the nine steps that you have to take in order to raise your self-esteem and to increase your willpower by extension.  
 


 
 
 













 
1. 
How to Spot Lies with Deception Detection Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
We have different ways to communicate with people — verbal and non-verbal. Unfortunately, we've learned how to get through verbal contact traps. Some of us have mastered lies-telling art. Nevertheless, controlling our non-verbal acts is a little harder. That's where manipulation strategies come in. 
 


 
Such methods can help you decide whether a person says or makes up something. And while most of these deception detection strategies are non-verbal, there are several verbal signs you should search for.
 


 
Voice Quality
 


 
You will begin to figure things out by listening to the person's voice. Crack or move from the standard pitch? 
 


 
We've also seen pictures on television where a character experiences a shift in voice tone if he tells a lie. Both of these examples are correct. Occasionally it gets louder. It becomes smaller occasionally.
 


 
Body Language
 


 
Lying isn't normal to us. That's why a liar, particularly an inexperienced one, freezes when he or she's in the middle of saying something wrong. 
 


 
As described earlier, deception detection techniques rely heavily on non-verbal signs. Through being just a little more observant, you can decide whether or not you hear the facts.
 


 
Eye Contact
 


 
They say lying people can't look straight in your head. So what if you treat professional liars here? What are introverts, extroverts? 
 


 
Okay, manipulation detection strategies will tell you what kind of person you're dealing with first. If the liar is an introvert, it may not meet your eyes. However, if your liar is an extrovert, he or she can look more confidently into your eyes. 
 


 
Reading people is a cinch with these identification techniques. The indicators can be easy but fairly reliable. So, the next time you're unsure about anything, consider listening and watching for unusual shifts.
 


 
 
 













 
2.Techniques for defending against manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
1. Shifting blame
 


 
Nothing makes a person more susceptible to manipulation than a sense of guilt, for which a person will do anything to redeem himself. The feeling of guilt makes the person vulnerable, and a sense of unease in communication develops. Aggressive people most commonly use this method. If you notice that someone constantly reminds you of something you have been hiding, especially in situations where it is not a topic of conversation at all, you can suspect manipulation. It is important then to defend yourself in the right way. 
 


 
2.  Playing the victim
 


 
In theory, this behavior is also known as the Kalimer effect, which points to the eternal pursuit of some justice, with the continued emphasis on the person in question drawing the thickest end. 
 


 
3. Pressure and insistence
 


 
The principle of this manipulation technique is that the tactics of gradual pressure boosting have greater effects, and often the interviewee is not aware that he has been manipulated. 
 


 
 
 


 
3.Acceptance
 
 


 
Acceptance is about assenting to the reality of a given situation. It’s about recognizing that a certain condition or process is what it is, even if it’s characterized by high levels of discomfort and negativity. It’s about consciously submitting to the fact that something cannot be changed, and that its reality is not subject to interpretation. It’s about making peace with the situation that you are in. 
 


 
 
 


 
Acceptance is the opposite of denial. Even the most rational among us tend to be in denial about lots of things in their lives, which are settled facts in real sense. Denial can be a coping mechanism, one that can keep us from being overwhelmed by the reality of a given situation. However, denial does us more harm than good, because unless we can accept something, we can’t change it, and we will be stuck looking for alternative interpretations and explanations for our prevailing circumstances.
 


 
 
 


 
Without acceptance, the door remains wide open for malicious people to exploit us. Take the example of a patient who is told that he/she is terminally ill. After seeking the opinions of several medical professionals and getting the same diagnosis, the patient is still left with the choice of either accepting or denying the situation. The one who accepts it will make peace, and try to make the best out of what little time he has. The one who stays in denial will become susceptible to tricksters who may offer "alternative cures," and he may end up losing all his savings paying such people so that in the end, he leaves his family with nothing. That is an extreme example, but it perfectly illustrates why acceptance is important in avoiding manipulation, even if the reality may seem too painful to accept. 
 


 
 
 


 
The most crucial form of acceptance is self-acceptance. It refers to the state of being satisfied with yourself, the way you currently are. Self-acceptance is a kind of covenant that you make with yourself, to validate, support, and appreciate who you are instead of constantly criticizing yourself and wishing you were someone else. Most people have trouble accepting themselves as they are. We are all in a constant strive for self-improvement. We want to be more successful, to be wealthier, to be more attractive, or to be perceived more positively by others. Even the most accomplished among us have issues with self-acceptance. 
 


 
 
 


 
In many ways, the desire to be a better version of yourself can be seen as a positive thing; it can help you study harder in school, work harder to earn a promotion at work or exercise more to get in shape. However, the problem is there is always room for improvement, so no matter how high you ascend, the dissatisfaction will always be there, and it will make you vulnerable to manipulation by people who want to take advantage of your desires.
 


 
 
 


 
To defend against manipulation, you have to accept your reality, and you have to accept yourself. People tend to think that if they accept themselves, they won’t try to improve – that couldn’t be further from the truth. Accepting yourself means owning up to your flaws, and that gives you control over your life. With self-acceptance, attempts at self-improvement would come from within, so when you decide to change, you will be doing it for yourself and not for anyone else.
 


 
 
 


 
4.Increase awareness
 
 


 
Increasing your awareness means having a higher level of alertness when it comes to understanding what’s going on in your environment. It means paying close attention to your surroundings, and to the way, people behave around you. The higher your level of awareness, the better you will be when it comes to adapting to your surroundings and understanding the motivations of the people you interact with. 
 


 
 
 


 
When you become more aware, you will be able to catch on quick when people try to manipulate you. Many of us tend to be preoccupied with our own thoughts that we hardly ever notice the cues of the people we interact with. We tend to live life on autopilot, so when other people try to seize control over our lives, we only notice it when it’s too late. If you increase your awareness, you will be equipped with the skills necessary to identify all the red flags, and you will be able to stop most manipulators on their tracks before they can do any real harm. 
 


 
 
 


 
The first step towards increasing your awareness is to learn about the tendencies of manipulative people. Reading this book puts you ahead of the curve; you now know enough to be able to spot people with ill motives, but you should understand that the worst kinds of manipulators are very good at concealing their motives, so you have to keep working on increasing your awareness. 
 


 
 
 


 
To be truly aware of manipulative people, you have to approach all interactions with some levels of skepticism. We are not telling you to turn into a paranoid person who doesn't let anyone in; we are just saying that you should take a deeper look each person you interact with. Try to study their body language and their words, and try to see if they are trying to hide something. 
 


 
 
 


 
Apart from increasing your awareness, you have to increase your self-awareness as well. Many people confuse those two things, but them entirely different concepts. Self-awareness is about understanding yourself. It’s about having a clear concept of your own personality. You have to examine yourself and figure out what your strengths and weaknesses are, what your values and motivations are, and what kind of thoughts and emotions you are likely to have in specific situations. Self-awareness helps you understand both who you are and how other people perceive you. 
 


 
 
 


 
Self-awareness works as a defense against manipulation because when you know who you truly are, it becomes more difficult for someone to alter your thoughts and perceptions. If you have strong and well-articulated values, it becomes harder for a manipulator to get you to abandon those values. People who like self-awareness are more likely to be gaslighted or to be subjected to other forms of mind control. 
 


 
 
 


 
If you end up in a relationship with a manipulative person, self-awareness can help you keep your identity. Manipulators will try to tell you what to think and how to behave, but if you are self-aware, you will experience cognitive dissonance, and your brain will push back against any attempts at manipulation. 
 


 
 
 













 
5.How to increase self-esteem and gain confidence?
 


 
 
 


 
Self-esteem is your opinion of yourself and your abilities. It can be high, low, or somewhere in between. While everyone sometimes has doubts about themselves, low self-esteem can make you feel insecure and unmotivated. You may be able to identify a few things that affect your opinion of yourself (maybe you are bullied, or you feel lonely), or it may be a mystery. Either way, there are many things you can do to improve your self-esteem.
 


 
The self
 


 
In today's society, the appreciation of those around you matters a lot. At work or among friends, we often seek the appreciation of others to increase our self-esteem. Specialists tell us that we no longer have to wait for the confirmation of others. We must become aware of our worth, learn to appreciate ourselves.
 


 
Comparison with other people should be avoided
 


 
We will never be able to achieve high self-esteem if we always compare ourselves with office colleagues, friends, or other family members. The moment we stop comparing ourselves to others, it means that we accept ourselves as we are and appreciate ourselves at their true value.
 


 
Appreciation of the positive aspects
 


 
Psychologists tell us to appreciate the positive aspects of our lives. These are the issues we need to focus on and not what bothers us.
 


 
Meditation
 


 
Some therapists advise their patients to meditate. It is recommended that the patient "empty" his mind and then focus on the present, on what is happening exactly at that moment.
 


 
Reaffirming positivity
 


 
It is important to have a few trusted friends who will regularly remind you of the reasons why you need to have high self-esteem. You have to do the same thing every day.
 


 
Sport
 


 
Sports and outdoor walks help increase self-esteem. Try to exercise for at least half an hour every day.
 


 
 
 


 
6.Change reactions
 
 


 
To defend against manipulation, there is one important thing that you need to realize; the only person you can control is you. You have absolutely no control over what other people might say, or how they might act. Your reaction is the only thing that is within your control. Even if you are a victim, and someone limits your choices considerably, at the end of the day, the power to choose how to act or react is still in your control. 
 


 
 
 


 
Think of all the civil rights icons you learned about in school; all of these people were victimized in one way or another, but they came out on top because of the way they chose to react to that victimization. So, to defend against manipulation, you have to change the way you react to the words and actions of manipulators. 
 


 
 
 


 
First, when someone does something to set you off, try to approach that situation with calm rationality. Focus on resolving the conflict instead of debating whose fault it is. When you react with anger in response to an accusation, or if you start passing the blame back and forth, you are playing right into the hand of the manipulator. When you change the way you react, you will be creating your own rules for the game that the manipulator is trying to play, and that will keep you from falling into his trap.
 


 
 
 


 
Never lead with your emotions. Instead, you should practice thinking things through before you react. In other words, instead of reacting instantaneously, train yourself to respond in a calculated way. When someone upsets you, refrain from lashing out angrily, and try to figure out what their motivations are. You can manage your reactions by using the same techniques that are used in anger management therapy; take a deep breath and weight the situation before speaking out.  
 


 
 
 


 
It may not seem so, but the simple act of taking a deep breath can do a lot to center you and to help you react better in any stressful situation. When you take a breath, it puts some distance between your reaction and the trigger situation, and that small window of time is enough for your brain to deliberate on things and to create a better response.
 


 
 
 


 
You also have to understand that things only have the meanings you give them. When a manipulator calls you names or yells at you angrily, it’s completely up to you to decide whether you’ll let it roll off you like water, or whether you will internalize it. It’s true that people only treat you the way you let them. 
 


 
 
 


 
You can change your reaction by changing the questions that run through your mind when you are in a negative situation. If someone is attacking you, the questions running through your mind could be: Why is he doing this? Who does he think he is? You can try to change those questions so that you start thinking: How can I quickly resolve this? How can I keep my dignity here? When you ask yourself the right questions, you have a better chance of finding a proper way to react. 
 


 
 
 


 
7.Be assertive
 
 


 
Someone can only successfully manipulate you if you are not willing to stand your ground and be assertive. Some psychologists have pointed out that being assertive is the middle ground between being passive and being aggressive. Aggressive people bully others to get what they want, and passive people let others walk all over them, so they don't get what they want. Assertive people, on the other hand, stand strong and ask for what they want in a firm and diplomatic way.  
 


 
 
 


 
When you are assertive, you communicate in a way that's respectful towards the needs, feelings, and opinions of others, but you are unwavering in advocating for your own needs. You make requests that are reasonable, and you try to avoid infringing on the rights of others. In case of a dispute, you seek a compromise that is objectively fair to everyone. You draw clear boundaries, and you let people know when they are crossing those boundaries.
 


 
 
 


 
The most crucial aspect of assertiveness is being a good communicator. Assertive people have voices that are relaxed but firm. They speak fluently, and they come across as sincere. When they have to work with others, they are cooperative, and they contribute in a constructive way. They don't raise their voices when things get heated; they stay steady, unshaken, and unfailingly logical. 
 


 
 
 


 
Assertive people are also good at using non-verbal cues to communicate effectively. They maintain eye contact with the people they are talking too. They have open body stances and good posture, which helps project strength and confidence. They smile when they are pleased, and they frown when they are displeased.  
 


 
 
 


 
Assertive people are very direct, and they know what they want from the very beginning. As a result, it’s very difficult for you to manipulate them. Manipulators like to use mind games and other little tricks to conceal their ill intentions, but assertive people will cut through all that by enforcing straight and clear two-way communication. When ordinary people suspect that they are being manipulated, they may keep those suspicions to themselves, but assertive people will come out and ask the manipulators what their intentions are; this throws the manipulators off balance and forces them to back off or switch gears. 
 


 
 
 


 
Being assertive means having the skills to communicate with both aggressive people and passive people. They don't let anger or fear keep them from putting their point across when they are dealing with aggressive people. However, when they are dealing with passive people, they also don't let other people's meekness, deter them from demanding what they are entitled to.
 


 
Assertive people are also well attuned with their own emotions. When they are upset, they don’t let their own negative feelings derail them from asserting for themselves in a rational manner.
 


 
 
 


 
8.Feed yourself
 
 


 
The idea that the food we eat affects our self-esteem has been around for a very long time. There is a lot of scientific evidence that shows a correlation between the type of food we eat and our levels of confidence, as well as our general mental wellbeing. The food you eat has an effect on your mood, your levels of anxiety, and how you feel about yourself as a person.
 


 
 
 


 
When we lack the right balance of nutrients in our bodies, it affects the levels of certain hormones, and as a result, we experience a shift in our moods. That explains why we tend to be more active and stimulated when we consume sugar, coffee, or foods with high levels of carbohydrates. There are also other foods that make us feel lethargic when we eat them. 
 


 
 
 


 
Some researchers have found out that when we fail to take in enough vitamins, fatty acid, and certain mineral, and omega three oils, we could experience depression. Because of their ability to keep depression at bay, these foods are referred to as "mood-boosting foods." 
 


 
 
 


 
Carbohydrates are usually broken into glucose, which is used as energy in the brain and in the muscles. If we don't eat enough carbohydrates, we will lack the energy to concentrate and to make good judgments, and that can affect our self-esteem and make us more susceptible to manipulation. On the flip side, eating lots of carbohydrates lead us to gain weight, and that can have a negative effect on our self-esteem. So, if positive self-esteem is your goal, you need to eat the right amount of carbohydrate; don't kick them off your diet, but also don't overindulge in them. Try to eat carbohydrate from whole-food sources instead of refined sources. Unrefined carbohydrates release energy slowly and give you a mood boost for much longer while providing you with much-needed fiber. 
 


 
 
 


 
Foods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids prevent low moods and can help keep you from getting depressed. Based on that, some scientists have argued that eating more fish can help improve your self-esteem. As you plan out your diet, you can make sure that you have at least one portion of fish a week. As a point of caution, avoid eating too much fish if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. 
 


 
 
 


 
Foods that are rich in vitamin B, such as spinach, broccoli, meats, eggs, and dairy, have the ability to boost your energy levels and your mood, so they can contribute towards you having a more positive outlook. Vitamin D food sources such as eggs, cereals, and oily fish can increase serotonin levels in your brain and make you feel good about yourself. Of course, you can also get vitamin D from the sun, so letting in the light or talking a walk outside every now and then can be good for your self-esteem as well.
 


 
 
 


 
 Excessive sugar, too much caffeine, and a high amount of alcohol can affect your self-esteem in a negative way. When you have a sugary snack, it increases your blood sugar levels and causes a spike in energy, but that is just momentary. After that, you will experience a "crush." That, combined with the feeling of guilt that comes from consuming "empty calories" can dampen your mood and lower your self-esteem. 
 


 
 
 


 
Caffeine also has a similar effect. It will stimulate you, for a moment and improve your mood, but once it starts wearing off, your mood will go down. 
 


 
 
 


 
Alcohol has the effect of improving your confidence and lowering your inhibitions, which is why it’s referred to as a "social lubricant." However, it is also a depressant, which means that it will make you feel anxious and irritable the following day, and that is bad for your self-esteem. By lowering your inhibitions, alcohol can also make you more susceptible to manipulation. 
 


 
 
 


 
9.Become autonomous and take control
 
 


 
To increase your self-esteem and to become less susceptible to manipulation, you have to become autonomous and to take control of your own life.  Researchers have found that autonomy is more highly correlated with happiness than any other factor out there. People who are autonomous tend to be more satisfied than those who are wealthy. That is because autonomy represents the core value that makes us human; the ability to exercise free will.  
 


 
 
 


 
In many social sciences, autonomy is defined as the quality of being able to make decisions according to one’s own free will. Since we are social beings, it can be argued that we don’t have absolute free will because the things we do are constrained by the rules of the societies we live in, but the important thing is that autonomy should be characterized by a feeling of freedom. In other words, it’s about being able to do things within being coerced by either internal or external pressures. To put it simply, autonomy is having your own identity, and being the only one that controls it. 
 


 
 
 


 
It’s very easy to lose your autonomy when you are in a relationship with a controlling person. Even if you are part of a couple or a family, autonomy means that you do things because you want to and not because you are obligated to do them. It means that there should be a clear distinction between you and your partner and that everyone should have their goals and ambitions, independent of each other. If you are in a relationship where you are subservient to the other person, then you lack autonomy. 
 


 
 
 


 
To maintain your autonomy and improve your self-esteem, be very careful about who you choose to date, and the people you choose to associate with. Even if you are committed to the person, you have to know at all times what your values are, what you want out of life, and who you are as a person. You need to hold onto those foundational values, and you should be wary of anyone who tries to make you compromise on them. 
 


 
 
 


 
You have to retain control over your life, no matter how much it’s intertwined with someone else’s. If you can’t define yourself, someone else is going to do it for you, and then you will become a mere extension of them. In other words, they will succeed in completely dominating and controlling you. 
 


 
 
 


 
You can take control of your life by setting aside some “me time” for yourself. It’s okay to take care of your family, friends, or partner, but if you let them have all your time, then you lose control over your life, and your identity will disappear. Set some time aside for yourself, and make sure that everyone respects it.
 


 
 
 


 
You also need to draw clear personal boundaries and to learn to say "no" to people. When someone asks you to do something, make an objective assessment of the request; if it adds no value to your life, then turn it down. Manipulative people will want to turn you into their "errand boy," so from the very first time you meet anyone, make sure that you don't let them use you.
 


 
 
 













 
Deal with toxic people
 


 
 
 


 
Dealing with toxic people is a situation that, at some point in life, we
 
will have to go through.
 


 
You may come across narcissists, liars, compulsives, manipulators, just to mention a few.
 


 
The problem with toxic people is that even if you want to avoid them, they always find a way to get into your life. Your actions are born of the need to belong to some group, and you can be the chosen one.
 


 
Luckily, there are some alternatives that smart people use to prevent toxic people from settling into their lives once they have been identified.
 


 
Let’s look at a lot of advice for dealing with toxic people. Enjoy them! Smart people:
 


 
1. Do not pay attention to toxic people
 


 
What toxic people seek most is attention? They want someone to see them and make them feel important. At any cost, they will endeavor to focus on each event or situation.
 


 
When you realize that one of these people has got your wish, ignore it and pay no attention to it. If the toxic person dominated a conversation, change the subject, and allow others to talk.
 


 
Most often, this person will try to draw the conversation where he or she feels safe. You can avoid this by explaining that the topic is past and are now in another subject.
 


 
In a matter of minutes, the toxic person will walk away. Over time, it will move away completely when you notice that you do not receive the attention you seek.
 


 
2. Don't tell your gossip secrets
 


 
How bad can a person who can't keep a secret do! Toxic people have no problem disclosing what you said. In addition, they criticize and talk badly behind their backs.
 


 
Identifying these people is sometimes tricky because they often seem trustworthy and kind. But there are signs that will help you:
 




 
They speak ill of others.
 


 
Always comment on the secrets entrusted to them.
 


 
They look for people to trust them as soon as they know them.
 


 
When you comment on someone else, they will tell her/him.
 




 
The best antidote for gossip lovers is to tell them nothing.  Simply live your life without inviting them. If you have entered your social circle, keep your distance.
 


 
3. Spend time, a lot of time, with your real friends.
 


 
Smart people know that having a strong support network is important in life. When you have this, you don't even have to worry about toxic people. You will simply have people who support you the moment you need it.
 


 
Smart people know that true friends are more valuable than any material good.
 


 
4. Avoid Handlers
 


 
Smart people know that manipulators can ruin a life. People who manipulate hurt to reach their goals.
 


 
To avoid handlers, you first need to learn to identify them.  You will know that they are manipulative because all their feelings become negative.
 


 
5. Let liars get involved in themselves
 


 
Toxic people often lie compulsively to other people and to themselves. They need to convince themselves that they are telling the truth to feel better. Unfortunately, for them, lies are always discovered.
 


 
Smart people don't get mad at lies, nor argue, just let the truth fall by its weight.
 


 
This usually happens sooner or later, because maintaining a false story is difficult, and contradictions do not take long to appear.
 


 
6. Do not engage in drama or discussion
 


 
Toxic people are experts at arguing for anything. If something doesn't go your way, get ready for a discussion and drama that will last for hours.
 


 
They like everyone to know about their problems. They love to be the center of attention and do not miss the opportunity.
 


 
If you are in this situation, act rationally.  Try to talk to the toxic person calmly if you cannot finish the discussion by explaining that you will not be able to come up with a solution and ask for it later.
 


 
If the problem has no solution or the person does not want to solve it, simply say that it is no longer your business.
 


 













 
CONCLUSION
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Dark Psychology claims that all humanity has a reservoir of malevolent intent towards others, ranging from minimally obtrusive and transient thoughts to absolute deviant psychopathic actions without any apparent reasoning. Like everybody in society, we are vulnerable to manipulation and using other people to fulfill our needs, either directly or indirectly, so we must know each other; know what our strengths and weaknesses are by exploiting and repairing them with a shared sense. The only way to manipulate social peace. Balancing means developing: individual, personal, care, financial, educational, spiritual, etc.
 


 
Like other cultures, we are subject to coercion and using other people to fulfill our needs, either directly or indirectly, so we need to know each other fully; know what our strengths and weaknesses are by manipulating them and fixing them in a critical way. The best way to fight coercion is a personal balance. We need to grow in balance fields: human, family, love, social, economic, spiritual, etc.
 


 
 


 













 
BOOK 4
 


 
Dark NLP
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
Introduction
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
We define Dark Psychology as the art and science focusing on mind control and manipulation. Psychology, as a general term, aims at studying and understanding human behavior. It is focused on our thoughts, actions, and the way we interact with each other. Dark psychology, however, just focuses on the kinds of thoughts and actions that are predatory in nature. Dark psychology examines the tactics used by malicious people to motivate, persuade, manipulate, or coerce others into acting in ways that are beneficial to themselves, and potentially detrimental to the other person.   
 


 
The best definition for dark psychology is that it is the study of a human status in its connection to the people’s psychological nature to prey upon other people. The entire humanity possesses a certain potential to victimize not only their fellow human beings but also other living creatures. Whereas, other individuals who might want to sublimate or restrain this kind of tendency, there are also others who opt to act upon some of these impulses. What dark psychology seeks to achieve is to make one understand those perceptions, feelings, and thoughts that end up leading to the predatory behavior of human beings. Dark psychology assumes this type of production is done for a given purpose and contains certain goal-oriented and rational motivation nearly all the time. The remaining portion of this time is essentially the dangerous victimization of other people with no purposive intent. In other words, we can perceive and define it by both religious doctrine and evolutionary science.   
 


 
The point of dark psychology, as a subject, is to try to understand those thoughts, feelings, and perceptions that cause people to behave in predatory ways towards each other. Experts in dark psychology work under the assumption that the vast majority of human predatory actions are purposeful. In other words, most individuals who prey on others (99.99%) do it for specific reasons, while the remaining people (0.01%) do it for no reason at all.   
 


 
The assumption is that when people do evil things, they have specific motivations, some of which may even be completely rational from their point of view. People do bad things with specific goals in mind and specific rationales for their actions, and only a tiny fraction of the population brutally victimizes others without a purpose that can be reasonably explained by either evolutionary science or some form of religious dogma.  
 


 
You have heard many times that everyone has a dark side. All cultures and belief systems acknowledge this dark side to some extent. Our society refers to it as “evil” while some cultures and religions have gone so far as to create mythical beings to whom they attribute that evil (the devil, Satan, demons, etc.). Experts in dark psychology posit that there as some among us who commit the worst kinds of evil, for unknown purposes. While most people may do evil things to gain power, money, retribution, or for sexual purposes, there are those who do evil things because that’s just who they are. They commit acts of horror for absolutely no reason. In other words, their ends don’t justify their means; they cause harm for its own sake.  
 


 











 




 
Chapter 1: The World of Dark Psychology
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Dark Psychology is not standard Psychology. It specifically deals with individuals who thrive on taking advantage of others. It looks at the parts of our brains that are wired to do bad or misleading things. We all have our own capacities to do “evil.” However, some people are much more dangerous due to a lack of empathy, remorse, and a strong will to control everything around them. Learning what makes these people behave the way they do can help us all to be safer in the future. Dark Psychology is working on doing exactly that, understanding.
 
 


 
Now, you are probably thinking about rapists and serial killers at this point, and you aren’t wrong. These types of people certainly give into their dark tendencies; however, there is actually something far worse. The people that are less obvious about what they are doing are exponentially more dangerous.
 


 
They make calculated moves and don’t act or look as if they would harm a fly. They are charming, witty, and oftentimes loved by those around them. Having the ability to see the traits and understand them through things like Dark Psychology is a benefit to everyone.
 


 
When we are trying to truly understand dark psychology, we need to start with understanding NLP. NLP stands for Neuro-Linguistic Programming. NLP has been part of the world since the 1970s. We see it in our daily lives; however, most people don’t even know it is happening. It is especially prominent in marketing, pyramid schemes, and other scams throughout the course of its time.
 


 
NLP is like a kid glove compared to the hard ways of typical hypnotherapy. It relies on subtlety and manipulation. Think of it as a suggestion that you just can’t seem to get out of your head until you are doing the thing you are thinking about. We will look at NLP in more detail in the next chapters.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The Dark Triad
 


 
Another area of importance in the world of psychology is the Dark Triad. The Dark Triad is a set of three particular personality traits that are associated with some not so great things. As noted, they are Psychopathy, Narcissism, and Machiavellianism. Each of these traits has their own set of characteristics. Let’s take a minute and look at each one to gain a better understanding of why they are considered dark.
 
 


 
We have all met people in our lives that are narcissistic or that others refer to as narcissists. A person who has the traits of Narcissism is one that thinks a lot of themselves. It does not always thinking you are the most beautiful one in the room; however, many narcissists do find themselves to be insanely attractive.
 


 
Narcissists are also, commonly, people who have giant egos. They have a totally unrealistic view of their personal image. Obviously, people that are too full of themselves are difficult to be around and tend to be great at manipulation people and situations. Pretty easy to see why this is a character trait that we, non-narcissist, are happy to not have.
 


 
Psychopathy has its own traits, and they are much different than that of the Narcissist. Psychopathy is characterized by exceptionally anti-social behaviors. The psychopath does not, typically, feel empathy toward others. In addition, they can have big egos and no remorse for their actions in life. Unlike sociopaths who tend to come unhinged easily, Psychopaths are calculated and oftentimes very charming. This makes them dangerous.
 


 
Machiavellianism, or “High Mech”, is the master of all manipulators. They don’t choose to be that way, they simply are that way. This type of person will go to extremes to gain power. Lying, cheating, stealing, and treachery are nothing to them. If the choice is between doing something moral to eventually meet your goals or stepping on and deceiving people to achieve goals more quickly, they will choose the latter every time. High Mech’s are calculating. They can be charming, but they will also use guilt and pressure to get what they want.
 


 
When it comes down to it, people that are part of the Dark Triad will do just about anything in their power to get what they want. You can easily see why this is dangerous and detrimental to the people around them. Having the ability to recognize these traits in people can help to keep you protected from their poison
 


 
It’s crazy to think how difficult it would be to deal with someone with only one of these issues. If you are around, in love, or working with one that falls into all three categories, it can cause serious damage to your mental health. Hopefully, with more understanding, those of you that deal with this type of behavior will be better prepared.
 
 


 
 
 


 
Criminology
 


 
Dark Psychology and Psychology play major roles in the world of Criminology. When you are trying to catch a criminal, it is easier if you understand how they think. Therefore, it is easy to see why these three things go hand in hand. Getting into the mind of a criminal, killer, or rapist can be very difficult for those of us that do not have these extremely dark tendencies. So, the fact that there is information accumulating for us to research is critical.
 
 


 
It is hard to wrap your brain around how a human being can be wired so much differently. Until we find the ability to do this, it can make catching the really bad guys difficult. With advances in understanding the darker tendencies of human nature it has become easier for Criminologists, Police Officers, and others to find these ugly individuals.
 


 
Psychology, and in turn, Dark Psychology have been around for a very long time. In fact, as far back as histories go, there have been people working on understanding why humans do what they do. We all have the capability of doing bad things. Some of us have a much easier time doing these non-moral acts above others.
 


 
Finding examples of people from the past to the present day that have the qualities studied in Dark Psychology is easy. It doesn’t matter what time frame you look at you will be able to pick out the characteristics easily with a few, obvious examples. Once you see it on a large scale, you can start to look at the people around you every day and see some of the same features. It is actually quite unsettling to realize how many people around you are prone to dark desires.
 


 
One of the most obvious examples is Adolf Hitler. Obviously, he committed awful acts. However, he had more than an entire country under his thumb. Why is that? Well, he was charismatic, he spoke articulately, and he was an amazing manipulator. He completely understood what he needed to do to have control over the masses.
 


 
He built a core group of like-minded people to help him along the way. While these people had a better look at what the truth was behind his tactics, we can’t believe they knew everything. A person such as Adolf Hitler would never let all of their secrets out. When looking for a prime example of a person that falls into all three categories of the Dark Triad, he is perfect.
 


 
With fear, power, charisma, likability, and laser focus, he managed to convince his people to commit atrocious acts against humanity. It’s odd to think that on an individual level, his followers were normal good people. When bombarded with propaganda, well-thought-out words, and intimidation, they bent to the will of a madman.
 
 


 
If people were better able to understand what was driving Hitler, there could have been a stop to his reign much more quickly. With more information in Dark Psychology, pinpointing the traits of a person like Hitler is easier than ever.
 


 
Another great example of a person that truly tapped into their dark nature was cult leader, James Warren Jones. More commonly referred to as Jim Jones. Many people are familiar with the phrase “drinking the Kool-Aid,” and we have him to thank for that. He ran a cult that consisted of around 900 people. They all, literally, worshiped him.
 


 
His cult was called The People’s Temple. He made promises of a Utopia for all of his followers. He relied on his charismatic attitude, well-spoken words, manipulation, and deceit to rope a large group of people to his calling.
 


 
From the outside, he appeared to be doing and saying things for all the right reasons. He was vocal about issues like racial integration and homelessness. He truly looked like a man of god with good intentions. This was heinously inaccurate. He was after power and control at any means necessary.
 


 
Once he had amassed a serious following, he relocated everyone to Guyana. Here, he started to rule his cult a bit differently. Instead of appearing like someone who was doing righteous acts, he began to manipulate his followers in a more obviously dark way. He would use threats of physical violence, blackmail, and even death to control the people that were following him.
 
 


 
Most people are pretty familiar with how this story ends. Upon worrying that the authorities were going to become involved with what was going on in Jonestown, he coerced his following to drink arsenic clad punch. His dark nature prevailed, and they did indeed drink the Kool-Aid, which resulted in 900 deaths that included men, women, and children.
 


 
 
 


 
One last great example of a person pursuing nothing, but power is seen in Delphine LaLaurie. Some people have probably never heard of this woman and many wishes that they had not. When you are looking for someone that seeks total control over people and takes pleasure in their pain, she is the person you should look toward.
 


 
 
 


 
Born as Marie Delphine Macarty, this southern socialite married a few different men in the course of her life. Eventually, she was simply known as Madam LaLaurie. She maintained a great standing with the people of New Orleans. She was very in touch with everything that was going on, and people held her in seriously high-regard. Little did they know something much more sinister was going on behind the scenes.
 


 
 
 


 
LaLaurie owned more slaves than most other people, and she loved to torture them. With little to no reasoning, she would perform awful acts against them to show true dominance. Oftentimes, it led to months of torture for these poor souls, just to be ended in death. What LaLaurie looked like to the common public and what she really was were two completely different things.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 2: Neuro-Linguistic Programming
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Neuro-Linguistic Programming is used today for a variety of different things. It can be helpful for people to overcome issues like anxiety, PTSD, and fears. These are only a very few issues that Neuro-Linguistic Programming can help with. While some people use it for good, others use it for darker desires.
 


 
We would love to say that the only place you will find NLP is in your therapist’s office, however; we actually see it in everyday life. From your workplace to the ads on your social media accounts, you can see it everywhere. NLP does not only focus on what people say but, more importantly, focuses on what people are doing. Our body language says more than our mouths ever could.
 


 
NLP has been under the debate of whether it is an actual science or if it is considered a pseudoscience. The debate still exists today, and it is hard to pinpoint this science due to the fact that it has not gone through the same rigorous testing as therapies such as CBT, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy.
 
 


 
There is a pretty broad range of techniques used within NLP, and this also makes it difficult to lock down which pieces actually work. There have been some studies performed, and oftentimes the results were inconclusive. In some, it appears as if NLP had made a true improvement in subjects with psychosis, instability, and other unwanted traits. Others worked on looking at its effectiveness to help issues like PTSD and anxiety. The results came back exceptionally varied.
 


 
Neuro-Linguistic Programming has been around for more than forty years. For something to be around this long and continue to be used throughout many people’s daily lives means there has got to be some validity to it, right? We see it used so widely on a commercial level, and it certainly does have an impact.
 


 
It also has its place in the world of Psychology and Dark Psychology. Due to the fact that it is quite unstructured, it is difficult to show true proof of its success. There are also a plethora of different ideas and ways of executing NLP. For some, it is a very effective form of therapy that truly helps them lead better lives. For others, it may not benefit them at all. These people will need to look at more traditional therapies to work through their issues and lead a happier and mentally healthier life.
 


 
 
 


 
NLP History
 


 
NLP is, in a way, a method of mind control. It was developed by a team of people. However, the majority of the credit is given to two California boys, John Grinder and Richard Bandler. In the 1970s, they decided to combine the works of Virginia Satir, a therapist for families, Friedrich Perls, a psychotherapist, and a hypnotherapist by the name of Milton Erickson. They wanted to take the heart of linguistic therapy and improve it. Find the pieces that truly worked and make something better.
 


 
The three people that they studied were chosen due to the fact that they had better results with their clients than most others in their field. In fact, people found their success to be odd and uncommon. Naturally, inquisitive minds wanted to know what these people had in common and why their methods worked so well. They studied them in live sessions and via videotape.
 


 
NLP is subtle. When we think about normal hypnotherapy, we think about people falling asleep and acting out strange and silly acts. Realistically, it is used for much more meaningful purposes. For example, people use hypnotherapy to help them stop smoking or to deal with traumas of the past that may not have been coped with. NLP does things a bit differently. It is much more suggestive and not so in your face.
 


 
In the beginning, Neuro-Linguistic Programming was thought to be as helpful as products like “snake juice” from the days of the old west. However, as the seventies turned into the eighties, it became more and more accepted. Businesses were jumping on the bandwagon to learn about it so they could, in turn, use it to help them gain profits from consumers. In addition, everyone from therapists to political figures started to want the information on this type of “programming.” It seriously started to blow up in terms of popularity.
 


 
Companies became interested in NLP because it can help them communicate more clearly. This helps to improve the performance of employees and the overall performance of the business. Businesses that use NLP have experienced better growth in their companies as a whole.
 


 
Not only can it help people become better negotiators, but it can also help them stay motivated. When you feel comfortable at work, and you feel like everyone is giving it their all, it’s easy to build a solid team. Being a confident leader that pays attention to tone, body language, and verbiage will help lead to better success. Implementing the practices of NLP can promote growth for companies.
 


 
As people started to employ these tactics, they began to notice changes in their teams. Boosts in morale and productivity. Now we see NLP happening around us every day. This is not necessarily a bad thing as people that practice NLP tend to be more self-aware. In turn, they tend to make better choices that are made from rationality rather than emotions.
 


 
How NLP Works  
 


 
If you are just coming across this topic for the first time, NLP may appear or seem like magic or hypnosis. When a person is undergoing therapy, this topic digs deep into the unconscious mind of the patient and filters through different layers of beliefs and the person's approach or perception of life to deduce the early childhood experiences that are responsible for a behavioral pattern.   
 


 
In NLP, it is believed that everyone has the resources that are needed for positive changes in their own lives. The technique adopted here is meant to help in facilitating these changes.  
 


 
Usually, when NLP is taught, it is done in a pyramidal structure. However, the most advanced techniques are left for those multi-thousand-dollar seminars. An attempt to explain this complicated subject is to state that the NLPer (as those who use NLP will often call themselves) is always paying keen attention to the person they are working on/with.   
 


 
Usually, there is a large majority of NLPers that are therapists, and they are very likely to be well-meaning people. They achieve their aims by paying attention to those subtle cues like the movement of the eyes, flushing of the skin, dilation of the pupil, and subtle nervous tics. It is easy for an NLP user to quickly determine the following:  
 


 
• The side of the brain that the person uses predominantly.  
 


 
• The sense (smell, sight, etc.) that is more dominant in a person’s brain.  
 


 
• The way the person’s brain stores and makes use of information (the NLPer can deduce all this from the person’s eye movement).  
 


 
• When they are telling a lie or concocting information.  
 


 
When the NLP user has successfully gathered all this information, they begin to mimic the client in a slow and subtle manner by not only taking on their body language, but also by imitating their speech and mannerisms, so that they begin to talk with the language patterns that are aimed at targeting the primary senses of the client. They will typically fake the social cues that will easily make someone let their guard down so that they become very open and suggestible.  
 


 
For example, when a person’s sense of sight is their most dominant sense, the NLPer will use a language that is very laden with visual metaphors to speak with them. They will say things like: “do you see what I am talking about?” or “why not look at it this way?” For a person that has a more dominant sense of hearing, he will be approached with an auditory language like: “listen to me” or “I can hear where you’re coming from.”   
 


 
To create a rapport, the NLPer mirrors the body language and the linguistic patterns of the other person. This rapport is a mental and physiological state which a human being gets into when they lose guard of their social senses. It is done when they begin to feel like the other person who they are conversing with is just like them.   
 


 
Once the NLPer has achieved this rapport, they will take charge of the interaction by leading it in a mild and subtle manner. Thanks to the fact that they have already mirrored the other person, they will now begin to make some subtle changes in order to gain a certain influence on the behavior of the person. This is also combined with some similar subtle language patterns, which lead to questions and a whole phase of some other techniques.   
 


 
At this point, the NLPer will be able to tweak and twist the person to whichever direction they so desire. This only happens if the other person can’t deduce that there is something going on because they assume everything that is occurring is happening organically or that they have given consent to everything.   
 


 
What this means is that it is quite hard to make use of NLP to get other people to act out of character, but it can be used to get a person to give responses within their normal range of character. 
 


 
At this point, what the NLP user seeks to do may be to either elicit or anchor. When they are eliciting, they make use of both leading and language to get the person to an emotional state of say, sadness. Once they can elicit this state, they can then lead it on with a physical cue by touching the other person's shoulder for example.   
 


 
According to theory, whenever the NLP user touches the person's shoulder in the same manner, the same emotional state will resurface if they do it again. However, this is only made possible by the successful conditioning of the other person.  
 


 
When undergoing NLP therapy, it is very possible for the therapist to adopt a content-free approach, which means the therapist can work effectively without taking a critical look at the problem or without even knowing about the problem at all. This means that there is room for privacy for the client as the therapist does not really need to be told about whichever event took place or whatever issue happened in the past.  
 


 
Also, prior to the commencement of the therapy, there is an agreement that ensures that the therapist cannot disclose any information, hence the interaction between the therapist and the client remains confidential.  
 


 
In NLP, there is the belief in the need for the perfection of the nature of human creation, so every client is encouraged to recognize the sensitivity of the senses and make use of them in responding to specific problems. As a matter of fact, NLP also holds the belief that it is possible for the mind to find cures to diseases and sicknesses.  
 


 
The techniques employed by NLP have to do with a noninvasive, medicine-free therapy that enables the client to find out new ways of handling emotional issues such as low self-esteem, lack of confidence, anxiety and destructive relationship patterns. It is also a successful tool in effective bereavement counselling.  
 


 
With its roots in the field of behavioral science, which was developed by Skinner, Pavlov and Thorndike, NLP makes use of the combination physiology and the unconscious mind to bring about change in the thought process and ultimately the behavior of a person.  
 


 
 
 


 
Importance of NLP  
 


 
NLP is not only necessary for the understanding of a person's being, but it also helps in the understanding of the way an individual is. It helps a person to get deep into the root cause of the problem, as well as the foundation of their being.   
 


 
Here are some other reasons why NLP is important:  
 


 
It helps people take responsibility for the things that they feel they may not be able to control. With the help of NLP, it is possible for a person to change the way they react to events of the past and have a certain level of control over their future.  
 


 
It is very important for people to be aware of the body language of the members of their inner circle, as well as those who they seek to do business with. With NLP, it is possible to make use of language with both control and purpose, and with this, it is possible to have control over your life.   
 


 
Remember, you cannot expect to make the same mistakes using the same mindset and hope to get different results. During an NLP session, the focus is placed entirely on the client as they are made the subject. This helps a lot because, at the point where a person can deal with his or herself as a person, they gain more clarity into his or her dealings with other people.  
 


 
It helps to improve finance, sales performance, marriage, health issues, parenting, customer service and every other aspect and phase of life. This is because it helps in the holistic improvement of an individual, and when a person is whole, his interactions and relationship with himself and other people become whole as well.  
 


 
It assists in targeting your beliefs, thoughts and values and helps with the targeting of a person’s brain functions, as well as developing certain behaviors. It also shapes the way these behaviors metamorphoses into habits and how the habits change to actions, which in turn comes as results.  
 


 
NLP is applicable to different vocations and professions. This is a tool that is very important in the mastery of sales, personal development experts and self-help, teaching, communication, parenting and other facets of life. 
 


 
 
 


 
NLP Techniques  
 


 
Here are some of the techniques that are employed in the users of NLP:  
 


 
Dissociation:   
 


 
Everyone experiences a bad day when a situation ruins it and gives one a bad feeling. This may be an experience that drowns your spirit every time you are faced with it. Also, it may be a certain nervous feeling that comes at any point that you have to address an audience. It could be a feeling of shyness that comes whenever you need to approach a certain (special) person.  
 


 
Although it may seem as though this feeling of shyness, sadness or nervousness is automatic and unstoppable, what the NLP technique of dissociation offers are ways to get over these feelings.   
 


 
Get to know about the emotion that you wish to overcome. Whether it is a feeling of discomfort, anger or dislike for a certain situation.  
 


 
Imagine the possibility of teleportation and looking back at yourself going through the same situation, but this time from an observer’s point of view.  
 


 
Take note of the dramatic change that occurs in the feelings.  
 


 
To get an extra boost for your morale, think about floating out of your body and watching yourself. This means that you will now be looking at yourself while your other self is also looking at yourself. What this double dissociation attempts to do is to take away all the negative emotions in all possible minor situations.  
 


 
Content Reframing:   
 


 
This technique is useful for all the times you feel like you are trapped in a negative or helpless situation. With the help of reframing, you will be able to get rid of all negative situations by becoming empowered by interpreting the meaning of the situation into becoming a positive thing.   
 


 
Take a situation where your relationship ended, for instance. Although it may seem as if it is an awful situation when one looks at it on the surface, what about the possibility of those hidden benefits of being single? Think of the fact that you are now open to meeting and interacting with new people, which means that it is possible for you to get into a new relationship. This means that you are now free to do whatever you want to do at whatever time you want to do it. From the last relationship that ended, you must have learned some valuable lessons that will eventually be useful to you in your subsequent relationship(s).   
 


 
It is very possible to panic or gets thrown into fear in certain situations. Instead of focusing on fear, you can sway your focus by reframing. This will contribute to helping you make some even-handed and responsible decisions.  
 


 
Anchoring yourself:   
 


 
This process of creating a neurological connection between the ringing of a bell and the attitude of salivating is known as a conditioned response. These responses to stimulus anchors can also be used on humans.  
 


 
The result of anchoring oneself is that a person gets to link a desired positive emotional response with a specific sensation or a phrase. When you can select a positive emotion or a thought and intentionally link it to a gesture, you will be able to trigger the anchor at every point you feel low, so you will be able to change your feelings immediately. Here are some ways of anchoring yourself:  
 


 
Take note of the feelings you want to experience. It could be a feeling of happiness, confidence, calmness, etc. Decide on the part of your body where you would love to place the anchor. This could be a certain action like pulling your earlobe, squeezing your fingernail or touching your knuckle. With this physical touch, you will be able to trigger the desired positive feeling whenever you want to. This has nothing to do with the part of the body that you have chosen, all that needs to be done is create that connection between the unique touch and the feelings. You do not have to make this touch for anything else besides the feeling.  
 


 
Think about a certain time in the past when you had the same feelings you are experiencing at a given moment. Reminisce on the time you felt the same way then float into your body by looking through your eyes so that you will be able to replay and relive the memory.   
 


 
Once this is done, you can make some adjustments to your body language to match with the memory and the state of mind. When you are reliving the memory, make sure you can see, hear and feel everything the way you remember it. If you can do this, the feeling will come back, just as it will when you tell a funny story from the past to your friend.   
 


 
Keep in mind that you will typically begin to laugh over again as you tell the story because while you get into the story, you will create some mental association with the story and relive the experience.  
 


 
While you are going back to this memory, pull, touch or squeeze that part of your body that you had earlier chosen. If you do this, you will notice that the feeling will heighten while you are reliving the memory. Once the emotional state gets to its peak and begins to wear off, you can then release the touch.  
 


 
This touch will create a certain neurological response that will be a trigger for the state whenever you touch that spot again. So, in order to feel this state again, all you need to do is to touch yourself again in the same way.  
 


 
To get an even stronger response, you can think of another memory from the past where you had that same feeling and go back and relive it from your own perspective. Anchor that same state as you have done before. Every time you add another memory, this anchor will gain more potency so that it will trigger an even stronger response.  
 


 
Whenever you feel the need to change your mood, you can revisit this technique. 
 


 
Hypnotists make use of NLP to get a great selection of methods that they can make use of during the process of hypnosis. When the process of NLP is being used, the hypnotist will use thought patterns that are causing problems for the subject. This will save both parties a lot of time as opposed to the use of the process of suggestion.   
 


 
Let's take the process used in stress relief or in dealing with an excessive appetite for example. This thought pattern will be used to get rid of any problem that the subject is facing, and when it is used by a certified hypnotist or a psychologist, it will prove to be a very effective technique.
 
 


 
 
 


 
Pillars of NLP
 


 
There are four main points to NLP, they are referred to as the Pillars of NLP. They are Behavioral Flexibility, Rapport, Outcome Thinking, and Sensory Awareness. Each one is of equal importance as the others. Taking the time to look briefly at each one of these points gives a better understanding of NPL as a whole and how it can help you weed out the fakers in your life.
 
 


 
The first pillar we are going to look at is Behavioral Flexibility. Basically, this means going with the flow. When people can see that the tactic they are currently using isn’t working and adapt their behavior, it can have great results. Being able to quickly change your perspective will allow more people to understand you.
 


 
The next aspect we are going to look at is Rapport. Creating a good rapport with someone is simply getting them to trust you quickly. In addition, it is the ability to form quick relationships with people. It is easy to build rapport by using common language, being polite, and showing empathy. There are many ways to build a good rapport with a person; these are only a few.
 


 
Then we move on to Outcome Thinking. It is exactly what it states, spending the time to think about the end result of what you want. Oftentimes, people get stuck on a certain point, which is commonly negative. It consumes the thought pattern and can make choosing the correct route to where you actually want to go difficult. With outcome thinking, you are always working toward an end goal. This can promote better decision making along the way.
 


 
Lastly, we have Sensory Awareness. Being aware of your surroundings plays a major role in knowing what is actually going on. When you walk into a public place and you take notice of the tone of the room, the colors surrounding you, the groups of people, it can be very enlightening. It can also help you easily understand how you need to behave in that situation.
 


 
The more you learn about these four pillars, the more success you will have with NLP. They are the foundation, and anyone who wants to learn NLP will spend a lot of time on each one. The more you broaden your knowledge, the more you will be able to apply what you have learned to your daily life and the more protected you will be from the ones that want to manipulate you, control you, or cause other burdens in your life.
 


 
 
 


 
NLP has grown and changed over the years. What started out as focusing on what people’s eyes were doing, the words they choose to use, and building quick rapport, turned into something much, much more. All sciences grow and change over the course of time, and we imagine that this one will also continue to evolve.
 


 
After focusing on what the yes were doing, word choice, and rapport, this therapy started to grow and focus on other aspects. In the ‘80, the people using NLP were focusing on what it is that causes feelings inside of us. This helped therapists to figure out how to help someone deal with their individual problems.
 


 
More and more people started using the techniques found with NLP, but they wanted to put different names to it. To say they had come up with it all on their own. When it comes down to it, no matter what you call it, NLP is the same across the globe. Today, it is used not only to help you have control and choices in how you react, but it can also help you figure out what other people are up to.
 


 
The people in the here and now that are using NLP have a variety of different reasons for doing it. Some of it is to help themselves become better people, while for others it is about weeding out the rats in their lives. Businesses use it in team-building and marketing techniques. Here again, we can see how vast the world of Neuro-Linguistic Programming really is.
 


 
It has been said that people who study Neuro-Linguistic Programming live freely. They have the ability to access all different types of situations and make choices in how they choose to proceed instead of being led by instinct and emotion. How you think, feel, behave, and speak can all be choices you make that can help you lead the best life possible.
 


 
NLP can be used throughout your daily life in a huge variety of ways. Some common reasons that people start using this are that they want to motivate other people, have control over their emotions, conquer their fears, communicate more effectively, and find success in life. There are many other reasons a person would take an interest in NLP.
 


 
 
 


 
If you are unsure of who you can trust in your crowd, NLP can seriously help. Understanding the behaviors and actions of people can help to clue you in on what’s really going on around you. This falls into Sensory Awareness. It is amazing what you can learn from looking at someone’s body position and paying attention to things like their tone of voice. People really do tell you everything you need to know with very little conversation.
 


 
Whether you are at your job or heading for a late-night party downtown honing these skills can keep you mentally and physically protected against predators. Knowing NLP techniques can also inform you when other people are using it for darker desires. Many people use these practices to become their best selves; however, others have more nefarious intent.
 


 
Obviously, when you can adapt to a situation and make well-thought-out choices, you are going to be more successful. There is less of a chance that people will be able to take advantage of you. In addition, you will be able to better understand the people in your life. Weeding out the keepers from the trash is simpler when you can read the situation accurately and adjust so that you are working toward your desired outcome.
 


 
 
 


 
Dark Traits of Manipulative People
 


 
Among the groups of the Dark Triad, there is a conglomeration of personality traits that are oftentimes, seen in criminals. It is not terribly surprising to find that most criminals have quite a bit in common. Taking notice of these dark traits is a great way of figuring out if someone has malicious intent toward you or not.
 


 
There are a variety of different dark traits that we see on an everyday basis. You may know someone who is very spiteful. Anyone that does something they don’t like will pay for it. Sometimes it will be petty retaliation, but it can explode into something much more dangerous, depending on who you are dealing with. Criminals tend to be spiteful, as they have malicious intent with their transgressions.
 


 
 
 


 
Another dark trait that you want to watch out for is egoism. When someone is so self-absorbed and focused on their own achievements that they will run everyone else around them into the ground, it is a major problem. Some criminals scramble their way to the top because of their giant egos and their ability to only care about themselves. Keeping an eye on a big ego can save you a lot of trouble, especially in relationships and business.
 


 
Have you ever met someone that had loose morals? You know that person that really doesn’t have much regard for if what they are doing is right or wrong. Someone that even when they know what they are doing is wrong, does it anyway, and then just laugh it off. This is a personality trait referred to as moral disengagement. Obviously, the ability to commit a crime and not feel terrible about it is something common among criminals a pretty dark trait.
 


 
Earlier, we discussed Machiavellianism. That person that will go to any means to get what they want. They are the ones that are the masters of manipulation. The justification for what they are doing is always solid. When trying to track down criminals, these are some of the hardest to catch as they tend to also be some of the smartest out there. Even experts of NLP can have a hard time locking this trait down.
 


 
Entitlement or Psychological Entitlement is also dark traits that we commonly see in criminals and everyday adversaries. Unfortunately, the world's sense of entitlement has gone off the rails. Nowadays, it is natural to meet people that have a sense of entitlement and this can make it difficult to use this trait in determining somebody's true intent.
 


 
Self-interest is another trait that you need to watch out for. We all have tendencies to be selfish; however, for some people it is to an extreme. They simply do not care what other people feel or want. This is commonly seen by people boasting about how much money they have or their status. In addition, their self-interest could be used to motivate them to gain betterment in finances or society. Those that are self-interested also tend to be extremely manipulative.
 


 
 
 


 
Then we have the narcissist. We spoke of the narcissist earlier, but their traits are very common among criminals. They have a need for attention and commonly and inflated sense of self. They will go to great extremes to prove that they are better than those that are around them. This could be in how they look, how they think, or how they act. The narcissist thinks that their ideas are the best and therefore, criminal intent goes hand-in-hand with the narcissist.
 


 
Psychopathy means that you lack in the ability to empathize with people. They have an extreme lack of concern where others are involved. This dark trait can also lead to a lack of self-control and extremely impulsive behaviors. Obviously, when thinking about criminals, this trait rings true for many of the extreme horrors we have witnessed in the past.
 


 
The last dark trait that we think needs to be discussed is sadism. A sadist is a person that likes to inflict pain. In fact, they take pleasure in causing other people pain. This does not necessarily have to be physical pain. In fact, many sadists find joy and completely tearing you down mentally. A wide variety of criminal classes fall into this category and, it is a common trait that we see in many of the people that are committing heinous crimes.
 
 


 
 
 


 
Behavior Imitation
 


 
Behavior imitation is something that can be used for good and for bad. Oftentimes, as children, we mimic the behavior of the people around us. It helps us to learn social norms. In addition, it helps us feel like we fit into the crowd. Many traditions have been built off of people mimicking other people's behavior.
 


 
As we continue to grow up, we continue to imitate people around us. Here again, it makes us feel as if we belong. Additionally, it can help us build relationships and understand the people around us more easily. While many people use behavior imitation for the right reasons, there are many others who don't.
 


 
 
 


 
Criminals who are socially awkward have a tendency of acting like the people around them. It can make it harder to discern the good guys from the bad guys. It is a manipulation tactic that works quite well when people don't exactly know how to behave appropriately. It is important to note that while some people are very good at mimicking those around them, it will be quite obvious when others are trying to do this. Cases of extreme social awkwardness will not allow the person to genuinely behave like those that are around them. This can be a tip to seeing what they may have planned next.
 


 
Another way that behavior imitation is prevalent with criminals is when they idolize someone or something. They will change their very persona to reflect that of which they have admiration for. A good example of this is people that still follow the ideals of Adolf Hitler. The new generation of Nazis mimics the ways of old because they still believe his blasphemous thoughts to be true. This is truly scary behavior imitation.
 


 
 
 


 
Body Language
 


 
A person’s body language is one of the biggest tells in how they are feeling and what they may be planning. The way a person moves and behaves while in a conversation, out in public, and at home gives great insight into what’s happening with them at that particular moment. Those who work on learning NLP techniques spend a ton of time studying about body language.
 


 
Body language is how we speak without using words. It can suggest that you are happy, sad, open to conversation, or completely closed off from everyone. Not only is it shown through your actual body but also through your eyes. Paying attention to the eyes is also an important part of NLP. There are some truths to be found in body language that may not be what the words coming out of someone’s mouth are actually stating.
 


 
It has been found that we gather more information from a person’s facial expressions, eyes, and body language than we ever could from their spoken words. So, learning how to read body language can help you in just about every situation you find yourself in. Learning how shady people act can help you in avoiding unwanted issues.
 


 
 
 


 
When you first start learning about body language, you will be able to easily identify some emotions. Obviously, we all know what it looks like when a person is happy or sad. The signs of this can be seen easily, but finding out when someone is anxious or uncomfortable can be a bit more difficult.
 


 
Studying non-verbal cues will take you to every area of the body. For example, slightly dilated pupils may not be from a bright light but may, in fact, be due to arousal. If someone is constantly biting at their lip, it could be a sign of stalling or higher levels of anxiety in the current situation.
 


 
How a person is standing or sitting also gives us some clues as to how they are feeling. A person with their arms folded around them is less likely to want to be approached. Whereas, an open stance with your hands on your hips means you are likely in control of the situation or you may be aggressive. Learning these types of things can seriously help improve your ability to pick out a troublemaker in a crowd.
 


 
If you have ever been in a room and noticed someone was acting kind of shifty. You know, like moving around the room frequently and during conversations they are unable to hold eye-contact. Your ability to notice these this is because most people have at least some basic knowledge on how to read a person’s body language.
 


 
Your posture also plays a key role in what your body is saying to other people. People who slouch and tend to wrap their arms around themselves are typically closed off. They may be feeling unwelcome or anxious. On the other hand, an open posture with your chin up and shoulders back is very welcoming. It shows that you are open to conversation, friendly, and approachable.
 


 
Not only does your body language help people decide how to approach you, but theirs also helps you decide about them. There is a plethora of different aspects to be considered with body language. The more you delve into NLP, the more pieces of body language you will pick up. It can seriously help when trying to identify those that are threatening and may have mal intent.
 


 
 
 


 
Language Imitation
 


 
Language imitation is another piece of NLP that should be taken into consideration. When we talk to someone, even if we speak the same language, it can be difficult for us to understand each other. Each individual has what is referred to as the common language. The common language is simply the words a person uses frequently and understand better than others.
 


 
When you are in a therapy session or at work and you are listening to someone talk, understanding what they are saying can be hard. It can feel as if they are speaking in a different language. This doesn’t work well for anyone, as the person listening is actually learning anything. This is a major issue and can cause massive detriment to a company or a person’s mental status.
 


 
Working to hear how someone talks, the phrases they use, and the tone that they have can help you succeed in language imitation. When you can speak in common language to the person or people you are addressing, you will be much more successful. Understanding will be promoted and what everyone gets out of what you have to say will be more beneficial.
 


 
Mimicking someone’s language is more difficult than mimicking their body language. The more time you spend talking with a person, the easier it will be to pick up on their vocal habits. Someone that is very good at picking up other people’s common language can be a danger if they have intentions of doing harm.
 


 
When we speak in a common language, it promotes trust. Putting trust into someone that wants to use your language against you is obviously something you want to avoid. So, be careful when dealing with people that quickly change their voice to match those that are around them. The ones that pick up on little pieces of context and repeat them to gain sympathy, trust, or control. It may be hard to recognize, at first, but the more aware you become of your surroundings, the easier this will be to spot.
 


 
Criminals tend to be good at this parrot-like behavior. They understand that to get people to like you, they absolutely need to understand you. If control is what someone is looking for, this is a good place to start and get their hooks in. So, while language imitation can help you and your therapist or employees relate, it can also be used to manipulate situations in favor of the person using this tactic.
 


 













 
Chapter 3: What is Persuasion?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The goal of any type of manipulation is to get the intended person to do something. This can either be a direct action or a more general sort of behavioral change. It can also be the deliberate alteration of held beliefs, opinions, and world views. Getting to change the way a person thinks is tantamount to changing that person. The breakdown of an intended target’s belief system is one of the first things that an experienced manipulator goes after. 
 


 
In a world fueled by an increasingly divided political base, public opinion matters. The ability to sway public opinion to have a favorable view of an organization, political party or candidate is a form of manipulation. But here we come across the thin line once again between malicious manipulation and just plain manipulation. It is unclear whether a politician is malicious when they make promises on their campaign trail only to fall back on them when they are in office.  
 


 
Such promises might get them more votes, and might be to an extent misleading, but it isn’t clear if they are malicious. Most would say that the candidate with the best speeches, talking points, and overall rhetorical strategies is the candidate who is most persuasive to their cause. And while persuasion sounds harmless at the surface level, persuasion is still a form of manipulation. To understand why it bears going back in history to find the beginnings of persuasion when it was being perfected as an art.  
 


 
 
 


 
Pathos, Ethos, Logos the Three Emissaries of Public Opinion
 
 


 
The art of persuasion can be traced back to Greek origins. It was used as a tool by great orators to get their message across to the common folk. For a country that is said to have created the political frameworks behind democracy, persuasion was immensity popular. If you have ever taken an advanced writing class that went over rhetorical analysis, you might recognize the above three rhetorical modes of pathos, ethos, and logos. These were billed by Aristotle as the three main appeals that an orator could make to move their audience. 
 


 
Its usage implies that the audience is a malleable entity, like putty. The words of a skilled orator can manipulate the audience like a child might manipulate a piece of putty. Other times persuasion is simply used to rile up a cause that was already popular, to begin with, but that had been up to that point undisclosed.  
 


 
The three rhetorical modes are important because they represent three different attack vectors that a manipulator might use to persuade their audience. Again, any form of persuasion is a type of mental manipulation, but it doesn’t become a psychological attack until it becomes malicious. In other words, there is a difference between plain old persuasive arguments and using persuasion to carry out dark psychology. 
 


 
Regular persuasion is the type that might make you vote for a candidate, or buy some product (though some would argue that modern-day advertising has dark psychology aspects). Malicious persuasion, on the other hand, might entice you to go against your set of morals and beliefs. This sort of persuasion is dangerous, because an attacker’s arguments may seem very convincing to you when, in reality, they are just cleverly designed to trick you. At the same time, the persuasion is being used for the benefit of someone else (most types of persuasion we are familiar with already do this).  
 


 
The dark psychology mindset tells us that there are people out there with less than kind objectives. They may be after your wealth, your emotional labor, your body, your mind, or just a few minutes of your attention. And all of this is theoretically possible through the levying of persuasive techniques. But first, we should talk about everyday persuasion in the traditional sense. What is it, who uses it, and how to detect persuasive arguments? 
 


 
 
 


 
Modern Day Aristotle
 
 


 
No matter what persuasive argument you come across, they will have all of the semblances of Aristotle’s appeals, mixed in with a modern “secret sauce” that is unique to the persuader (and indeed the situation). It is still worth talking about persuasion and persuasive arguments because they are the cornerstone of all types of manipulation. If a manipulator were a boxer, persuasion techniques would be like their left jab. Not as powerful as a KO punch, but still the punch that lands them the most points and slows down their opponent. 
 


 
A modern-day Aristotle can be anyone. A politician, a used cars salesman, even your mother is trying to convince you to move closer to home. All of these would be Aristotle's have something in common: they want something from you. And it is your job to decide whether their needs are genuine and desirable for all parties. They will no doubt stop at anything to convince you that they are. To do this, you have to separate their argument from the chaff. For persuasive techniques, the chaff is usually the bubbly language or the sharp edge in their arguments that really cuts you into you. 
 


 
But beware. Just because it cuts you, it doesn’t mean that it is deep, or meaningful to you in any way. Many skillful persuaders will only pander to already preconceived notions that their audiences may have. They simply say something that they know their audience will like, and instantly become that much more credible. 
 


 
But someone trying to come up with a novel argument will first have to design a rhetorical strategy using any of the three rhetorical modes available. This is true whether they are trying to form an essay, a speech, or simply persuade you into doing something. The world of sales is chock-full of strategies used designed to get you to buy. A competent salesman may try to get to know you first (especially if the purchase is large, like a new house or car). They wish to form a relationship on the first-name basis and then pose as a close friend. 
 


 
In the world of sales, the only thing that matters is the purchase. If a customer decides to buy, then whatever strategies used to make that sale are fair game. This opens the ground for deploying several different types of psychological tricks against the unsuspecting customer. For example, a salesman may introduce them to a high-end item that is purposely out of their buying range and then redirects them towards an item of similar functionality that is perceived as being more affordable. 
 


 
A family looking to buy a new laptop for their college-bound son may be directed towards the expensive and latest Apple laptop product only to realize that it is well out of their budget. The savvy salesperson can then walk them to the Windows computers aisle and show them an alternative product that is the same color as an Apple computer, but that has a different operating system and is slightly less performative. Now, that other laptop may still be a flagship item and have a sizable price tag, but it is perceived as a good buy by the family because the salesperson showed them an item they believe to be state of the art.  
 


 
Such tricks are less persuasive strategies than they are crude psychological manipulation. But both of these things can be used for devastating effect. Persuasion that is more psychological in nature involves more trickery and subterfuge—the type of things one would expect except dark psychology techniques. Indeed, the salesman trick of going high and then going low can pass as a type of emotional manipulation. It is subtle, but there is clear pandering towards what a customer believes their money can buy them. First, they are shown what is considered to be the “it” product. But since they can’t afford it, the salesman is putting them on an emotional roller coaster of desire. 
 


 
In a way, it is a projection of what the customer believes they deserve. Sure, they can’t afford the best, but since they feel like they deserve the best (and since the salesman believes that they deserve the best) then buying the next best product is an easy choice. And if they can afford the high-end object the salesman shows them first, then their job is already finished. In other words, whether the customer buys the expensive item or the lesser expensive one, the salesman still wins. It is a perfect example of a psychological manipulation that is difficult to detect in the heat of the moment, and that has a high rate of success. 
 


 
Pathos 
 


 
Pathos is an appeal to emotion. Traditionally, it has been based on appeals to sadness or pity (which shouldn’t come as a surprise seeing that the Greeks were very into plays and tragedies). Nowadays, any appeal that has a strong emotional response may be considered as pathos. Emotion has infiltrated the marketing world in recent years, especially when it comes to social media ad campaigns. Companies and large corporations are waking up to the new realities of social awareness.
 
Never before has an audience been so keen on the problems facing the world, many of which are blamed on the corporations in the first place. 
 


 
Pathos works best when it is bare and out in the open. When used correctly, it hits the target like a punch to the gut (think about those cancer hospital commercials or animal cruelty videos) Pathos often strives to make the audience uncomfortable, but making the audience feel good about themselves is just as common now. 
 


 
The anatomy of a good argument from pathos is as follows: establish a connection with the audience through common understanding, put forth an argument, and then charge the audience with the emotional payload in relation to the argument. Take, for example, the following implicit argument about cancer research. 
 


 
1. Cancer is a terrible disease. Cancer can hit anyone, at any time, even innocent children. Sometimes it the reward for simply being “born.” Because of this, it is in the best interest for humans to find a cure for it. 
 


 
2. Cancer is a common enemy for humanity to defeat. An effective way to defeat it is to increase government t and public spending on cancer research. 
 


 
3. The people who suffer the most from cancer are those who are diagnosed with it and their families. The financial burden of a cancer diagnosis can be just as disastrous as the illness itself. 
 


 
4. Charity organizations can both provide aid to families and increase spending on cancer research. 
 


 
5. Therefore, by donating to charity organizations you helping fight in the war against cancer. 
 


 
This entire argument can be implied through a short, 30 second commercial on TV by using compelling images. It is powerful because it establishes a moral common ground (cancer is bad, people who get cancer through no fault of their own don’t deserve it) and then uses that common ground against the audience (if you don’t donate, then you have no sympathy for others). Or alternatively, if you don’t donate to help end cancer, then you are contributing to the deaths of thousands every year) 
 


 
Note that appeals to emotion are almost always logical fallacies. Obviously, a person can still be sympathetic towards cancer research but not have the kind of disposable income to donate. Or they don’t believe that charities are efficient at getting money to the cause (this happens all the time).  
 


 
But pathos is effective because not everyone cares about spotting a fallacious argument when they are getting hit in the gut by an emotional attack. Though logically inconsistent, plenty of people do and will fall for the persuasive power of pathos arguments. 
 


 
Ethos 
 


 
Ethos is less easy to classify into argument form. In Ancient Greek, ethos means “character.” It is sometimes called the appeal to ethics, from the Nicomachean ethics theorized by Aristotle himself. His ethics, in short, emphasized personal character and virtue. An Aristotelian appeal to ethics, then, is an appeal from someone's character (if it is deemed virtuous). For example, people were more likely to listen to what an esteemed orator had to say that to pay attention to what the local drunk said. Politicians in Ancient Greece used the power of ethos to solidify their public image as men of virtue. Men who, on any given day, acted in the way that the ideal man should. This demeanor of rightness gave them considerable voting share. 
 


 
Now when we use ethos, we use it a little differently (though in many situations in the same way of old). Instead of making an appeal to the ethics of the speaker, modern ethos makes an appeal to authority, social standing, fame, and domain knowledge. We live in a world where experts in their fields hold more persuasive power than the right to do man. And why shouldn’t we? The scientific revolution shifted the focus from virtue ethics to the scientific method. It is now men in lab coats who command the strongest ethos in a purely logical sense. 
 


 
People listen to doctors for their health advice. But they might also listen to what a celebrity says, or believe the political advice given by a five-star general. They might listen to what their local religious leaders say (both in established religious sects and in cults). Children listen to what their nearest authority—their parents—tell them to do. And so guess the argument. Ethos is convincing because people believe in the person who is endorsing the argument. They want to show the way, by someone who has the perceived authority to do so. 
 


 
These arguments, like with appeals to emotions, tend to be hopelessly fallacious. Before cigarette companies were demonized for selling cancer-causing product and before they were required to put health information on the label, they used depictions of doctors or celebrities smoking. But doctors or celebrities endorsing a product says nothing about their potential harm, especially before cigarettes were branded a carcinogen. Prior to the acceptance that cigarettes caused lung and throat cancers, the major concern was with dental health. A new line of cigarette filters was created to protect consumers’ oral hygiene, rather than to protect them from the real menace.  
 


 
A quite famous old-timey cigarette ad by Viceroys featured a man in a white frock with the caption “As your dentist, I would recommend Viceroys.” The emphasis was that Viceroy filters prevented tar buildup and were thus “healthier” for you than other brands. Of course, we know now that the notion of a healthy cigarette is completely absurd. 
 


 
Perhaps the most well-known of these arguments is WWJD, or “What would Jesus do?”. Jesus is a moral character, is given moral weight to any situation. By posing the question to any potential dilemma, one could imagine the righteous course of action.  
 


 
Logos 
 


 
The last rhetorical mode is logos or appeals to logic. This is the most straightforward rhetorical mode available and the most logically consistent. An appeal to logic will have the necessary scientific and mathematical facts to back up the argument’s position. An argument for gun control should be accompanied by a number of violent crimes using handguns, deaths and so on compared across various different gun control legislation (including no legislation). The audience is then tasked with deciding for themselves f the numbers tell the truth, or if they tell lies.  
 


 
Logos can be used by itself or in conjunction with ethos and pathos to form a persuasive argument.
 


 
While logos seems logically consistent at first glance, it is still possible to form fallacious arguments using them. And these are just as convincing as using arguments from the other two forms. 
 


 
A drug company is trying to sell a new medication for a serious illness. The company says that their product saves 20% more lives (or some other treatment improvement. But what does this really mean? The company doesn’t provide a full breakdown of where their numbers came from. All the consumer sees is a commercial with uplifting music and people doing everyday things.  
 


 
What the company may not tell you, is that the breakdown is much more sinister. In other words, if only 20 people normally survive out of 100, then a 20% increase is only four additional people. That isn’t very much—especially when you consider the potential side effects of the given medication. 
 


 
Sadly, pharmaceutical companies get away with this all the time. They use purposely misleading health information in the form of relative frequencies (mostly because they are easier to understand). The net effect is that a consumer might make a decision based on false pretenses. For the company, it means higher profits.
 


 













 
Chapter 4: Methods of Persuasion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The basis of persuasion is to direct the other person to the thought you desire and to make it normal in the basic belief and vision system. To simplify, it is to make the other person think the way you want. That's exactly what it means to convince. If the other person thinks the way you want, you can take the action that you want to take, that is, buying a product or consuming a product.  
 


 
Located below are techniques to persuade and convince some of the most effective techniques effectively. Persuasion techniques are not limited to these, but they are important for efficiency. You may encounter many other techniques of persuasion, such as rewarding, punishing, creating a positive or negative perception.  
 


 
1. Creating Needs  
 


 
One of the best methods of persuasion is to create a need or to reassure an old need. This question of need is related to self-protection and compatibility with basic emotions such as love. This technique is one of the biggest trumps of marketers in particular. They try to sell their products or services using this technique. The kind of approaches that express the purchase of a product to make one feel safe or loving is part of the need-building technique.  
 


 
2. Touching Social Needs  
 


 
The basis of the technique of touching social needs are factors such as being popular, having prestige, or having the same status as others. The advertisements on television are the ideal examples. People who buy the products in these advertisements think they will be like the person in the advertisement or they will be as prestigious. The main reason why persuasion techniques such as touching social needs are effective is related to television advertising. Many people watch television for at least 1-2 hours a day and encounter these advertisements.  
 


 
3. Use of Meaningful and Positive Words  
 


 
Sometimes it is necessary to use magic words to be convincing. These magic words are meaningful and positive. Advertisers know these positive and significant words intimately. It is very important for them to be able to use them. The words “New,” “Renewed,” “All Natural,” “Most Effective” are the most appropriate examples of these magic words. Using these words, advertisers try to promote their products and thus make the advertisements more convincing for the liking of the products.  
 


 
4. Use of Foot Technique  
 


 
This technique is frequently used in the context of persuasion techniques. The processing way is quite simple. You make a person do something very small first because you think they can't refuse it. Once the other person has done so, you will try to get him to do more, provided he is consistent within himself.  
 


 
First, you sell a product to a person at a very low price. Then you get him to buy a product at higher prices. In the first step, you attract him to yourself, so you convince him to buy it. In the second step, you convince yourself to buy products at a higher price. Their acceptance of a small thing will help you to fulfill the next big demand from you.  
 


 
After refusing the small request from the other party, you feel a duty to make a big request from the same person. This is usually the case in human relations. For example, you agree when your neighbor comes and asks you if you can keep an eye on the shop for a few hours. If your neighbor comes to ask you to look at the shop all day, you will feel responsible and probably accept it. This means that the technique of putting a foot on the door is successfully applied.  
 


 
5. Use of Orientation from Big to Small  
 


 
The tendency to ask from big to small is the exact opposite of the technique of putting a foot on the door. The salesperson makes an unrealistic request from the other person. Naturally, this demand doesn’t correspond to the real issue. However, the salesperson then makes a request that is smaller than the same person. People feel responsible for such approaches, and they will accept the offer. Since the request is small, by accepting it, people have the idea that they will help the salespeople and the technique of moving from big to small requests works.  
 


 
6. Use of Reciprocity  
 


 
Reciprocity is a term for mutual progress of a business. When a person does you a kindness, you feel the need to do him a favor. This is one example of reciprocity. For example, if someone bought you a gift on your birthday, you would try to pay back that gesture. This is more of a psychological approach because people don’t forget the person who does something for them, and they try to respond accordingly.  
 


 
For marketers, the situation is slightly different from human relations. Reciprocity takes place here in the form of a marketer offering you an interim extra discount” or “extra” promotion... You are very close to buying the product introduced by the marketer you think provides a special offer.  
 


 
7. Making Limits for Interviews  
 


 
Setting a limit for negotiations is to provide an approach that will affect future rights. This is particularly effective when negotiating prices. For example, if you are trying to negotiate a price to sell a service, it might make more sense to start by opening the price from a higher number. Opening from a low number is not the right method because you have weakened your stretching share.  
 


 
Even if the limitation for negotiations is not always useful, it’s particularly useful in terms of price negotiation. Say the first number and get on with the bargaining advantage.  
 


 
8. Limitation Technique  
 


 
Restriction technique is one of the most powerful methods to influence human psychology. You can see this mostly in places selling products. For example, if a store has a discount on a particular product, it may limit it to 500 products. This limitation can be a true limitation or a part of the limitation technique. So, you think that you will not find the product at that price again and you agree to buy that product at the specified price.  
 


 
The restriction technique is particularly useful in new products. As soon as a new product goes on sale, you can convince people to buy it for a limited time or by selling a limited quantity of products with extra promotions or discounts. People who think that the product will not be sold again at a similar price may choose to buy the product you have chosen thanks to the success of your persuasion technique.  
 


 
Persuasion techniques are not limited to these. Different techniques can provide more successful results in various fields. However, most of the techniques we may encounter in our daily lives consist of the methods shown here. If you want to be a marketer, if you are trying to sell a product or service, you need to have detailed information about these techniques if you want to make them available.   
 


 













 
Chapter 5: Brainwashing and Other Techniques
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
If you would ask a person at random whether they know what brainwash means, you get an affirmative answer 90 percent of the time. That's not the case more often. This concept has been heard by many of us, but we often tend to confuse our vague realization of what it is for an otherwise accurate understanding. The question we dare ask ourselves then is what brainwashing means and why it does. It is perhaps the essential kind of dark psychology we are going to discuss, which offers much more negative results than the rest. 
 


 
This complex brainwashing enigma is essentially the gradual process of replacing the ideas of a victim with a manipulator about their being and of replacing them with new ideas that should adapt to one's own needs, and that can either narrowly take place. For example, a manipulator can control a person or adopt the same principle but a broad group. The circumstance of brainwashing is like the one where people believe they can be a call for a higher purpose to join a terrorist organization. In the majority of other scenarios, indoctrination appears to be effective. Most believe that brainwashing is the Hollywood fiction of someone who continually imposes certain concepts on their victims, and within a short period, the person becomes the manipulator for every bidding. More realistically, it is a process that generally changes an individual's perception of reality far from what they have had a very gradual but voluntary process. The fundamental trick is to make the victim feel as though they are always in control. There are several situations that make brainwashing possible, and often they are motivated differently by it. Let us discover these specific scenarios, starting with the situation of a cult. A cultic can be said to be an organization of people who often believe that one individual is considered as their leader in something larger than themselves. The leader is often characterized by his exceptionally great influences and a very charismatic behavior on his followers. The question that we now try to ask ourselves is, why is brainwashing a culture in those contexts? 
 


 
The very basic appeal that these cults possess is that actual reality is only graspable if they decide to cultivate and follow the teachings in the factions. This is often something that people want to listen to because the truth is that today's world is a complicated journey often appears confusing, which gives some relief from a promise of fraternity and an unparalleled opposite. Brainwash resonates here with the idea of a new normal. It is because of this idea that cults used by different sect leaders to brainwash the members to accept their mostly strange doctrines at the same time, making them a dominant theme in their lives. It sounded incredibly strange to idolize a mere mortal to the extent that he actually adored it. But that's so' normal' in a cult that it doesn't seem to be a little bizarre for other members. Probably the most potent way to ideological brainwashing is through this process of social strengthening. Cults have the same DNA as drug distributors. Why is that? Why? Usually, a person finds a particular sect to find something he or she lacks in life. In the drug world, the same thing happens because a person often tries not to experiment freely. Cults do not make brain ash people members, as people have sought some form of fulfillment of a particular desire. It is this innocent desire to search and to be prepared, making them easy goals for brainwashing. 
 


 
The context of ideologies would be another similar one, which must brainwash on its foreheads like cults. Their principal difference is that not so much the individual is the focus of ideology, but the whole idea. In principle, ideological brainwashing is stirred up by persons who have put absolute and full confidence in a plan. It is regarded as a very dangerous tactic because it goes beyond one person. Use an example to understand this better. When you look at the religious extremist groups, they worship their leaders like tomorrow is no one. Would it be enough to say that your' god' could be killed? This is a definite no because, as long as they are 6 feet below the surface of the ground, they will be praised and recognized as martyrs who died because of their ideologies. 
 


 
This theme not only resonates in the cultural playground, but it also places me on a more innocent level. The brainwashing effect on fans is too often experienced by musicians. If you hear music often, a diehard fan of a particular musician will mark a reasonably young and impressive person with his sense of identity and happiness for a specific musician. You are frequently able to defend your famous superstar as if you knew the person personally. Some fans will even go to a higher level to harm themselves if their idols also imply that it is a cool thing to do. Can you imagine the effects this will have if used in a cult context if ideological washing on the innocent level is so dangerous? In addition to the general brainwashing scenarios, it can easily take form in a personal setting. 
 


 
When you dive into the bowl of personal brainwashing, we find that the brainwashing process, as it is at the border, is also the slow and gradual replacement of the existing beliefs of a man with those placed by a manipulator to serve his benefit more effectively. The main difference between the two is that unlike a group to implement the new typical scenario, the manipulators, in this case, aim at establishing a profoundly personal relationship with the victim. This is considered to be stronger than the brainwashing group because the brainwashing tape can be continuously altered to match the psychological structure of the victim. 
 


 
After you have had an insight into the real occurrence of brainwashing, how do the manipulators use this kind of dark psychology? Hollywood's one thing is to lay the groundwork for indoctrination. Each brainwashing movie typically begins with a focus on the mental state of the individual and the social circumstances surrounding him — this way of controlling the mind. Brainwashing is not a technique that every single person can smoothly perform. These manipulators are often the preferred victim who seems to be attempting to fill an absolute emptiness, particularly those who are turned on by certain life events by their current reality. There is no question of losing a loved one as the best example of this to be illustrated. The emptiness is often conveyed to people wherever they go. This person, in search of their being full again, will choose to flee and join religious extremist groups and become suicide bombers in pursuit of being entire. The brainwasher gives us assurance as a killing ideology. 
 


 
Once a handler intensifies his aim from the Internet or in an individual, the brainwashing method has been launched. Contrary to the image, the actual representation of these unhappy personalities, which looks strange and culturally withdrawn from the fellow with a particularly distorted perversion as an intellectual washer, is north of this because they are only ordinary individuals with whom we communicate on a regular occasion, with a calm and pleasant feel. Slowly but certainly, the manipulator will operate challenging to create an atmosphere in which the person thinks he can trust him. It is accomplished by generating clever peripheral associations such as a shared interest in a specific sport and a similar musical relationship. After that, the manipulator will then move forward to create even more confidence. He does so by creating some grim experiences from the background, which are also associated with painful survivors. For instance, if the victims share in the loss of a wife, the manipulator will give them a history in which he, too, has lost a friend. 
 


 
The next phase is recognized as a demonstration of utopias. What does that imply? The manipulative person regularly provides alternatives to any of the issues that the people face. It is a brainwashing method. This is generally performed informally, at first, to prevent any negative pressure interactions of the person. The perfect introduction is never any specific item, and it is either character; the manipulator often tries to transform his target as well as religion or a particular religion. It could be either terror or his stupid willingness to honor and validate. If procedures are started correctly, a specific person often seeks to gain perspectives into a greater knowledge of the alternatives. In certain situations, the manipulator will initially retain this data, emotionally forcing the person to operate to prevent it. This outcome is what occurs effectively. 
 


 
Once the person who was subsequently introduced into this new belief system and appeared to be reacting in such a manner that the manipulator would like to, his real motives will be revealed very carefully. This concept is called "gradual disclosure." In essence, this is a method where ideas are presented that are often simple to comprehend before anything disputed becomes apparent. When we stare at religious terrorism, this is made completely clear. Recruits are frequently taken in by persuasive phrases like God enjoys them. After you're a wholly committed participant, the story requires a severe turnaround. What those rulers advise the participants is that the person is now crossing a line of no exchange, and nothing can be said to modify their minds because of this love. 
 


 
I can bet that the question you are asking yourself right now is, why does the person consider it still okay to still communicate with his oppressor after the aims of manipulation have been disclosed? Usually, this is because of several factors. First of all, the participants experience a powerful feeling of pleasure and acceptance at this stage. This is because they took the time to build this solid base of friendship and helped them out of a challenging period in their lives. Secondly, the victim has spent a lot of time and money on the process so far and isn't right to let all of that drain back from everything. This is also referred to as the price mistake. Finally, because the manipulator has now collected a box of conflict of the perpetrators of most mysteries, the person decides to remain. They are cautious that this could be used at some stage at the moment against them. The problem of blackmail is not generally grasped to explain, particularly if they are endangered, why a person would be associated with them. Why is that? Why? The manipulator is willing to hide the truth often in a non-threatening manner as a master of deception. The manipulator will tell, "if I can no longer assist you, you get the greatest person, like a near family-member bug, you can go," because the manipulator already has a profound feeling of relationship and confidence in the subject, the blackmail image and power is usually seen to emanate from it. That is what persuades the viewer externally to remain ahead of this brainwasher's manipulating route. The events behind it create the pain and difficulty of moving back so severe that the only way to stay in this manipulative room is for the survivors. More often than not, this method puts the person in a situation to believe that whatever the manipulator says is eventually the reality. The person feels as if he has selected his opinions as his own and has sought them out of his will. This turns a human being, who is once usually imagining, away to something that they have no concept of life into an indoctrinated psychological slave. 
 


 
Brainwashing affects a person since it is considered as one of the most potent tactics of mental control. One of these side effects that the victim is likely to suffer is identity loss. In many cultures and ideologies, one characteristic is the fact that individuals often obliged to finish their initiation cycle are often told to give up their earlier identities, and their oppressors are granted another name. You're going to do what was just out of your moral radar before. When a manipulator skillfully deploys brainwashing, he tends to let the person feel like he only wakes up from a lifetime vision. 
 


 
The primary risk of brainwashing is not that it influences the manner the person believes about sand, but also significantly affects the behavior of manipulators. People are changing drastically from productive employees to morbid personal outcasts ready to commit abominable crimes like rape and assassination. 
 


 
This feels somewhat drastic, but it's right in almost every way. If you have any doubt, for instance, as to what brainwashing an individual can do, take these instances. Members of certain spiritual cults happily break up all their links to their families beforehand, put behind their thriving lives, hand over all their assets and property, and give full autonomy to the organization that has brainwashed them — not everything. The person will regard their new lifestyles as a gift, rather than a disagreement in which they were compelled to live.  
 


 
Another example of the toxic brainwashing consequence is the recurring tale of mostly youthful people who are brainwashed by spiritual extremes who travel abroad to a community of persons that they never encountered and never damaged by a car filled with explosives Such perpetrators are often educated people who have a long history of lives and have no disruption or abuse. Does this dramatic death show that the brainwashing method is overwhelming, conquesting?  
 


 
Another characteristic of those who escape or who is rescued from an intense brainwashing situation is a post-traumatic stress disorder. In most instances, victims of brainwashing show severe symptoms of mental distress comparable to those of military servicemen. This demonstrates that brainwashing produces outcomes similar to those submitted in a war-like context, which is probably the most significant impact of brainwashing, where the person returns to the communities they once thought secure after being expertly drawn out from the bleak angles. Even though the people have been fished from this psychological grip, some have been harmed only too much that they wind up with latches in the fingers of their manipulator. This is because they are so hurt that they do not understand otherwise. 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulation
 


 
Manipulation is another area that you need to be very careful with. Let’s face it, we have all likely manipulated someone at some point in our lives. Some people do it without even realizing that they are while others are completely calculated and intend on manipulating others around them for their own gain. Recognizing manipulation can vary in difficulty, depending on how good of a manipulator you are dealing with.
 


 
Psychological manipulation is not always a bad thing. If you love someone and know that what they are doing is harming them and you subtly make suggestions to help them correct the behavior, it can truly help them. This type of manipulation happens frequently but is honestly quite harmless.
 


 
Depending on how well you know someone, it could actually be very easy to manipulate them. Manipulators tend to use our vulnerabilities against us. Knowing someone quite well can open up the door to manipulation as they understand what makes you tick and what buttons they can push to get you to do what they want. Obviously, this could be used for nefarious reasons, and you need to be careful who you put your trust into.
 


 
Those who enjoy manipulating others won’t be exceptionally aggressive. They understand that manipulation is an art and a skill that you need to hone. While their intentions may be malicious, you would never know it. That is one of the keys to manipulation. A person that is willing to intentionally manipulate others for their own gain tends to be a bit ruthless. They don’t particularly care if what they do will cause you harm.
 


 
Manipulators control their victim in a variety of ways. Using things like negative and positive reinforcement. Negative reinforcement is an awful tactic. It’s giving someone an out on something they don’t want to do and getting rewarded for bad behavior. For example, allowing a child to eat ice cream for dinner if they clean the entire house. While this is pretty minor manipulation, it is a solid look at it. Using positive reinforcement like praise, fake sympathy, gifts, and laughter to get what you want is almost just as bad.
 


 
You are fooling people into thinking you feel a way that you absolutely don’t so that you will, eventually, get what you want.
 


 
Manipulation also, typically, has lots of lying going on. It can be full-on lies or partial mistruths. Lies are used to protect the actual intent of the manipulator. They will vehemently deny doing anything wrong. They do this with diversion tactics and evasion. Giving answers that lead you in a different direction or that don’t really answer your questions at all. Being vague is absolutely a quality of the manipulator.
 


 
Shaming and villainizing victims is another way that manipulators gain control. When you can make someone feel small and then build them back up, you have a lot of control over what they will become. With fake niceness and underlying villainy, the manipulator can always find ways to get what they want from you. Making an innocent person look like a villain is another common tactic that manipulators use. It causes the victim to become defensive, and many will take defense as guilt coming out, even when this is not the case at all.
 


 
While all of these tactics are underhanded, they are also all quite negative. What about the manipulator that goes about it a different way? Instead of spreading fear and tearing you down, they are charming and charismatic. They take control of the crowd simply by being there. They seduce people into doing whatever it is that they want. These are some of the worst manipulators, and frequently they are the hardest to spot because they are clever.
 


 
What we have shown you here are just a few of the techniques that manipulators use to get what they want. They also use things like anger, judgement, and projection to get the end that they are shooting for. While manipulation can be harmless on occasion, the majority of manipulation is anything but harmless. We, as humans, have free will and someone taking control of that is a major problem.
 


 
Manipulation is used in all facets of life. It could come from your loved ones, co-workers, bosses, media, politicians, and more. You should make yourself aware of how people are acting toward you and be suspicious of their intent until you actually get to know them. However, do we really ever know anyone? A person with true mal intent will keep their intentions well covered. This brings the question of, can we actually put our trust into anyone?
 


 
So, how do you know if you are susceptible to manipulation? Well, there are very specific characteristics that manipulators look to exploit in people. If you have low self-esteem, are immature, naive, dependent, trusting, altruistic, masochistic, or greedy, there is a good chance that a manipulator will seek you out. These characteristics are easier to control. Bending the will of someone that doesn’t think much of themself is going to be much easier than someone that knows their worth and value.
 


 
Elderly, trusting, and lonely people are also very vulnerable in terms of being manipulated. In addition, young and easily influenced people are more vulnerable. Finding the perfect person to take advantage of is not a hard thing to do. Recognizing your own shortcomings and attributes can help you avoid being manipulated in the future.
 
 


 
What motivates a manipulator to manipulate, you may wonder? There are a variety of features that we see in true manipulation. What drives manipulation can vary, but it mostly comes down to power and control over other people for personal gain. The gain can be financially or socially, but there is almost always some sort of gain for the one doing the manipulation.
 


 
It’s funny to think that some manipulators don’t even know that they are doing it. These individuals likely do a lot of lying to themselves. This allows them to disregard their emotions. It may also help them deal with issues like phobias or problems with commitment.
 


 
Most of the time, someone who is manipulating others, knows exactly what they are doing. They may just be bored and feel like manipulation is a fun game that no one really gets hurt. However, this is a backwards way of thinking. Trying to force someone to do what you want them to, for whatever reason, is always wrong.
 


 
When looking at the reasoning behind manipulation, more often than not, it is for the financial or social gains that come with manipulation. Taking advantage of easily influenced elderly people by providing them with company and compassion so you can steal their money is a common way to manipulate for financial gain.
 


 
Manipulation is certainly a form of control. People that will manipulate others tend to have a need for control. This can be at the workplace, at home, or out in public. They want to advance themselves, and they always want to end up on top. Wanting to do well for yourself is not an issue, but when you will do it at the expense of others, it becomes one.
 
 


 
Protecting yourself against manipulators can be easier said than done, especially if someone is well-practiced in the techniques of manipulation. Learning to recognize the signs of manipulation can absolutely help you avoid it. In addition, working on your own self-esteem can help you dramatically. Manipulators, as noted, play on your weaknesses.
 


 
Taking the time to self-actualize and know where you are weak will help you patch up those vulnerabilities. In turn, you will be less likely to be manipulated. Respecting yourself is another great way to avoid manipulation. A person that has respect for themself is less likely to bend to the will of others, regardless of how well-practiced in manipulation they are.
 


 
Being upfront and assertive can also help you avoid the behaviors of the manipulator. When you know what you want, they don’t, typically, want to take the time and effort to change your mind. They will move on to easier prey, leaving you to lead the life that you want to lead without the influence of a manipulator.
 


 
One other action you can adopt that will help you avoid being manipulated is to set boundaries from the word go. When an expectation is set in stone, people won’t want to do the work it will take to change it. Knowing yourself and your limits are, in general, important, but become vastly more important when dealing with someone that is keen on manipulation.
 


 
Obviously, criminals tend to be manipulators. So, they fall into the Dark Triad. Manipulation is one of the simplest forms of control, and with practice, people can turn people into puppets quite easily. This is how cult leaders gain such large followings. Additionally, it is how people like Stalin, Hitler, and others were able to gain control of entire countries and get the people to jump on the bandwagon of their beliefs.
 


 
 
 


 
Persuasion
 


 
Persuasion is another behavioral base that can be used for dark desires. We have, likely, all been persuaded to do something in our lives that we didn’t necessarily want to do. Typically, it is quite harmless. A little task at work or at home that isn’t our favorite, but we get talked into doing it anyway. Maybe we are coerced to do it for some reward, or
 
perhap
s
 we are simply just trying to be compliant, so we don’t get in trouble.
 


 
Persuasion can be used in a variety of ways, and it is surprising what people can be persuaded to do. Sometimes people can be persuaded to do atrocious things that are absolutely against their very nature. This is, of course, less common but happens more often than most people realize.
 


 
The techniques of persuasion vary, but there are some that are fairly easy to spot. Others will go without notice and these are much more dangerous types of persuasion. So, how do people persuade others to do just exactly what they want?
 


 
Some will use the foot in the door principal. This is explained quite simply as asking for a small favor before you ask for a big one. Once you get a person to say yes, once it is easier to get them to say yes again, the small favor will go hand in hand with the larger favor. A good example of this would be asking someone for some loose change because you forgot it in your car, and it is lunchtime then proceeding to ask them to share their lunch because you didn’t bring that either.
 


 
On the opposite side of the foot in the door principle, there is what is referred to as the door in the face practices. Rather than asking for something small followed by a request for something bigger, you ask for something huge then something small. This tactic works very well. You can ask your best friend for ten thousand dollars and it is likely they will say no. Once they do, you can ask for a simple twenty and they will be much more likely to oblige. This type of persuasion is dangerous but easy to see if you work on being attuned to what people are doing and saying. You really need to pay attention to what they are actually saying or asking.
 
 


 
 
 


 
Humans tend to be fairly consistent in their beliefs and commitments. Persuasive people can pray on this behavior. Here again, a person can get you to agree to something small that you would normally do, then turn it into something much larger, because you have already made a commitment to them it is more likely that you will follow through with their bigger scheme.
 


 
Persuasive people may also act like they have some authority, even when they don’t. This is done because we, as a people, learn respect for authority from the time we are little. When we are in front of someone that has authority, we tend to give them respect and do as they ask. This is especially true in the workplace. Misplaced authority is a great way to persuade people to do your dirty work for you.
 


 
One of the easiest forms of persuasion to detect are those that come in the form of being “social proof
”
—
Believing something to be true simply because it is commonly expected with no empirical data to back it up. We see this sort of persuasion in groups of friends or workers. One person comes up with something and everyone else simply goes along with it rather than thinking for themselves.
 


 
Reciprocation is another form of persuasion. If someone does something for you, we naturally feel inclined to do something for them. A persuasive person will do what they can to make you feel indebted to them. By doing so, you may end up doing something you truly don’t want to because you feel obligated. You want to be careful who you are asking favors of.
 
 


 
When looking at the most commonly used types of persuasion, we need to look at scarcity. This is the “you better hurry quick and get this item before it is gone.” We widely see it in sales and marketing tactics. When a person believes there is only a small number of something or a limited time on a deal, it is much more likely that they will want it. As you can see, this is a great strategy for businesses.
 


 
This gives you a good look at how persuasive people function. They tend to be a bit underhanded in working on getting the things that they believe are important. Criminals may be very good at the art of persuasion. With skill in this dark tactic, gaining a following and people that will do the deeds you want can become exceptionally simple. As noted, seeing some of these techniques is relatively simple, spotting others will take time and dedication. Learning NLP can help you spot the persuader more easily.
 


 
 
 


 
Deception
 


 
Along with brainwashing, manipulation, and persuasion comes deception. Another trait that is studied in Dark Psychology. Deception is something we come into contact with on a daily basis. It can be very small and harmless, or it can bring a true burden to a person's life. Being deceptive takes practice, just like any other skill you can hone it with practice. Criminals and unjust people focus on deception and think of it as an art form.
 


 
An example of a small deception is to tell someone you love their shirt when you actually hate it. We do this to spare people’s feelings and to avoid feeling uncomfortable with telling people what we actually think. Even the most honest people use deception on others.
 
 


 
You may not realize it, but not only do we deceive other people, but oftentimes we also deceive ourselves. When we tell ourselves lies, it can be both helpful and harmful. Consistently telling yourself that you are worthy of love or that you can meet a goal even when you, realistically, don’t believe these things is empowering when your brain starts to believe it. On the contrary, you may be seeing delusions and while your rational brain knows they aren’t there, the lies convince you that they are. This can lead to psychosis and other mental health problems.
 


 
Throughout the years, there have been a number of practices to pick out the liars or deceivers. This is seen in testing, like that which is done with a polygraph. Lie detectors are oftentimes discredited. This is because people that have disorders that make them exceptionally anti-social and those with the inability to empathize tend to pass a polygraph with flying colors. Polygraphs end up catching good people that made bad mistakes, generally a more honest type of person.
 


 
 
 


 
When it comes down to it, even the most honest of people, will tell lies. It is considered to be part of human nature. It is likely a part that is needed. Sure, giant scandals come from big lies and criminals tend to lie more than anyone, but saving your best friends’ feelings is not always a bad thing. Finding a balance is important and realizing why it is exactly that you are lying.
 


 
Criminals tend to be liars. They constantly want to deceive people, so they get the desired outcome they are looking for. As noted, they hone this skill of deception, which can make it insanely hard to notice. The normal “tells” of lying don’t exist as much when dealing with a narcissist or a psychopath. Being cautious about who you put your trust into is the best form of protection against deception.
 


 
Deception comes in many different forms. It may be a white lie or a heavy lie to a boss, friend, family member, or others. I could also look like flirting. NLP teaches us to read other people’s body language. A woman or a man can project body language to make someone think they are interested just to get their way. A good example of this is the woman that shows off her form to get out of a ticket. By flirting with the cop, she is deceiving him into thinking he has a chance, so he lets her go.
 


 
Body language is probably the best detection you will have from people skilled in the form of deception. Sometimes it may be obvious. You should always be wary of people that are mimicking other people’s body language. You may actually see it change as they stroll from group to group. Instantly be on your guard with people like this as they are much more apt to deceive and take advantage of you.
 


 
 
 


 
Covert Emotional Manipulation
 


 
Dark Psychology also spends time looking at Covert Emotional Manipulation. It is more commonly referred to as CEM. CEM is a way to gain true power over someone without them even realizing it is happening. You will be so enthralled that these sneaky tactics will have you doing things you would not normally agree to.
 


 
We have already talked about manipulation, but there are so many different forms of it and this one is pretty important. It not only allows criminals and people with mal intent into your life, it also breaks you down mentally. The effects of this type of manipulation can last forever if you are not careful. As noted, it is insanely subtle, which means looking for the red flags are very important.
 


 
Covert Emotional Manipulation looks different depending on the people involved. Oftentimes, the victim will be slowly made to feel as if they can’t do anything without the other. It is a strange sort of codependency that happens over time. This happens without manipulation on occasion, the difference is when your partner is doing it intentionally to get you to behave or think differently.
 


 
It may start with offers of help for simple tasks that you usually do on your own. They may follow it up with a critique to make you question your ability to do it. It starts small, but they will continue to poke at it until you start to truly believe you can’t do it on your own. You can see it worked into all kinds of things and a ton of relationships.
 


 
Depending on who you have allowed doing this to you, it could be mostly harmless. On the other hand, there are a lot of people with less than genuine intentions that could take this to an extreme. This type of manipulation can turn it to flat out brainwashing. In that case, it is possible that you will lose your free will forever.
 


 
People that use CEM against other people pay great attention to detail. This can be endearing as it appears as if they are learning about you. In reality, they are observing your behavior, learning what makes you tick. This will grant them access on how to manipulate your emotions subtly to get what they want. They are truly hunting for your weaknesses.
 


 
The heinous people and criminals that do this in life are calculating. They tend to have bigger plans and you are simply playing a role. They have no care or regard for how you feel or for the damage they are causing you. All they can see is the outcome that they are striving for. Finding that they are unable to ever sustain relationships is not surprising because of the selfish nature of how they are wired.
 


 
As time goes on, CEM turns into something else. What started out as little jabs that looked like they were made from love, become something much darker. As you start to lose control and bend your will, the aggressor will pounce. They can become domineering. In addition, they will start to tear you down piece by piece to gain complete control.
 


 
Playing with someone’s emotions is a great way to gain control over them. Some people would rather bombard someone with love to get them to do what they want, rather than being crasser or crude about it. Love bombarding is very typical of the narcissist. It is its own form of manipulation and it can be downright cruel in reality.
 


 
You will feel like the most important person in someone’s world. You will go along with what they say hook, line, and sinker because you truly trust in what they say. Once this person has you there, they can easily force their will and beliefs onto you. Fighting against this is extremely difficult for some people.
 


 
Becoming solid in your belief system will make it more difficult for someone to pray on your emotions. Another way to combat this dark tendency is to work on really knowing yourself. When you spend the time to meditate, self-actualize, and maintain control of yourself, it is much easier to fend off attacks on your emotions.
 


 
When someone manipulates your emotions, it can have a detrimental impact on the rest of your life. Narcissists and Psychopaths do not, oftentimes, have the ability to have true feelings. They are shut off, in a way. So, them playing with yours is a simple way to gain control of you and the situation they are in. Practicing the art of NLP can also give you signs as to when these types of people are trying to harm you.
 


 
Gut feelings and red flags should be paid attention to. Naturally, we have instincts and sometimes something just feels off from the beginning. Maybe you meet someone, and they seem just a little too perfect or you just feel a bit uncomfortable around them, don’t disregard these thoughts and feelings. We are wired to sense danger. This is not just a physical danger that we sense but also an emotional and mental danger. The phrase “go with your gut,” is a good one and one that can help you avoid unpleasant situations.
 
 


 













 
Chapter 6: Hypnosis
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Hypnosis or hypnotherapy is a state that is trance-like where a person’s focus is heightened as well as their concentration. Hypnosis is done with the assistance of a therapist that uses verbal repetitions and mental pictures. When a person is put under hypnosis, they normally feel relaxed, calm and are open to suggestions. 
 


 
Therapists have used hypnosis to help individuals gain control over behaviors that are undesirable. In dealing with anxiety and pain, hypnosis has also been found to be helpful. Although a person is relaxed and more open-minded to receive various suggestions, it is important to know that a person doesn’t lose control over their behavior. 
 


 
Why is hypnosis done?
 
 


 
Therapists say that hypnosis is an excellent way to cope with anxiety and stress. For instance, if someone is supposed to go for a medical procedure that they are anxious and stressed about, hypnosis can help calm them before the procedure. There are various conditions where hypnosis is used. These may include: 
 




 
Pain control – if a person is suffering from chronic pains from cancer, childbirth, joints, headaches, among others, hypnosis may help in bearing the pain. 
 


 
Hot flashes – when a woman is going through menopause, she will experience hot flashes that are uncomfortable most of the time. Hypnosis has been known to help with the discomfort of hot flashes. 
 


 
Behavior change – some people may find themselves having behaviors that are undesirable. Such include bed-wetting, insomnia, eating disorders, among others. The use of hypnosis has been known to help in transforming these undesirable behaviors. 
 


 
Side effects of cancer treatment – during cancer treatment, patients go through chemotherapy and radiation treatment. These forms of treatment leave the patient with undesirable side effects. The use of hypnosis helps cancer patients deal with these effects and cope with the treatment. 
 


 
Mental health conditions – many people suffer from various mental health issues such as post-traumatic stress, anxiety, phobias, among many more. The uses of hypnosis help a person deal with these conditions and bring relief. 
 




 
What are the risks of hypnosis?
 
 


 
When hypnosis is done by a trained therapist or a medical practitioner, it is considered a safe addition and alternative treatment. However, in people with serious mental health issues, hypnosis may not be the best method to use. There are various reactions to hypnosis. However, these reactions are rare and they include: 
 




 
The person may feel dizzy after therapy 
 


 
Experience slight headaches 
 


 
After therapy, a person may feel drowsy 
 


 
A person can be distressed or anxious 
 


 
In rare cases, hypnosis can create false memories 
 




 
Preparing for Hypnosis
 
 


 
There is no need for special preparations before a hypnosis session. However, it is recommended for a person to be comfortable and relaxed. It is also important for a person to be well-rested to avoid falling asleep during therapy. 
 


 
Before you go for therapy, research and ensure the therapist you have settled on is certified to perform hypnosis. Look for someone you trust that has undergone hypnosis and ask for references. You can also opt to interview the therapist before the session by finding out some of these: 
 




 
Does your therapist have psychology, social work, medicine training? 
 


 
Is your therapist licensed and certified to perform hypnosis? 
 


 
Where did the therapist get his training from? 
 


 
How much training does your therapist have in hypnotherapy and where did they get the training from? 
 


 
Does your therapist belong to any professional organization, and if so, which ones? 
 


 
How long has the therapist been in practice? 
 


 
How much the cost per session and are their sessions covered by insurance? 
 




 
Once you have settled on a therapist, he or she will explain the expectations and the process. The therapist will then embark on talking in a gentle, soothing voice as he describes pictures that create relaxation, well-being, and security. 
 


 
When you are relaxed and in a state of reception, the therapist will begin to suggest ways you can achieve your goals. A therapist may also help you have a vivid mental picture of yourself accomplishing the goals. Once the session is over, you can either bring yourself out of it or the therapist will help get out of your relaxation state. 
 


 
During hypnosis, one does not lose control of their behavior. A person is always aware and remembers all that happened during the hypnosis session. 
 


 
Hypnosis is used to help in coping with pain, anxiety, and stress and is used in cognitive behavioral therapy to change the behaviors and thoughts that are undesirable. However, hypnosis is not recommended for every person. Some people find it hard to get hypnotized, while for others it is easy and they enjoy the benefits. 
 


 
Three Stages of Hypnosis
 
 


 
Hypnosis is a process that involves the deep body and mind relaxation. Before we get to the various hypnosis stages, it is important to first understand how hypnosis works or the process of hypnotherapy. 
 


 
1.- Getting ready
 – every hypnotherapy session with a qualified therapist must be carried out in a relaxed, safe and calm environment where there are no interruptions of any kind. There is usually a preliminary discussion between the therapist and the person to be hypnotized. This is usually done to establish if the person has had prior hypnotism sessions and their experiences as well as trying to establish the problem one needs working on. 
 


 
Most of the problems usually include a behavior or thoughts a person needs to balance or completely changed. For instance, a person may be struggling with bed-wetting; this behavior with the help of hypnosis is addressed and changed. 
 


 
A skilled therapist should gather as much information as possible during the preliminary talk. This is important so that he may work on the best technique for the particular person and problem. The pattern most therapists use during the session is loose. It follows: 
 




 
Preparing and screening a client 
 


 
Inducting a client to an altered state consciousness state 
 


 
Deepening the trance state that opens suggestibility 
 


 
Posthypnotic suggestions. This is where advice is given regarding the problem the therapist worked on. 
 




 
2.- Induction
 – in a typical hypnotherapy session, the initial 15 minutes are for helping the client relax their mind and body. This stage is referred to as the induction stage. It involves helping a person to enter into a light state of trance by the use of relaxation techniques that work on the mind and body. 
 


 
Gradually, the person is encouraged to relax their muscles and mind. This technique is aimed at ridding a person of any tension and releasing anxiety. The therapist focuses on instructing the client to slow and control their breathing. This is also to help relax and distract the conscious mind so that a person focuses on the subconscious mind. Because of many methods of induction, it is important for the therapist to understand their client and apply a method that works for them. 
 


 
3.- Deepening a trance
 – this stage is where the subconscious mind is made ready to be more receptive to suggestions or new behavior. Once the mind accepts new thought patterns, a change in behavior follows. To deepen the trance, some therapists may opt to continue reinforcing the induction method used. The method can be accompanied by visualization techniques that are very deep to increase the trance. A qualified therapist knows that it is important for a person to be deeply altered in consciousness before starting hypnotic suggestions. 
 


 
Now that you know how hypnosis works, it is important to understand the three stages of hypnotism. 
 


 
Stage 1 – Hypnoidal State 
 


 
This is the stage of light induction. At this stage, the person is encouraged to relax and have an internal focus. This stage is light and is characterized by the fluttering of the eyes of the person. 
 


 
Stage 2 – Cataleptic State  
 


 
This is the stage where the therapist moves to deepen the trance state. To know if a person is in this state, their eyes move from one side to the other. 
 


 
Stage 3 – Somnambulistic State 
 


 
This is the deepest stage in a trance. This is evidenced by the rolling up and down of eyes. This is the stage where suggestions are given and received at a subconscious level and the person in some cases may not remember hearing them. 
 


 
Applications for Hypnosis
 
 


 
Hypnosis has been known to have existed for as long as records have been able to show. According to the American Society for Clinical Hypnosis (ASCH), the use of modern clinical hypnotherapy goes back to the late 1700s. Since 1958, the use of hypnotherapy as a form of reliable therapy and tremendously increased. Hypnotherapy has found use in the modern world in different ways. 
 


 
Hypnosis is used in various ways from mental health conditions to psychological and physical conditions. It is used on people suffering from chronic pain, depression, in sudden and acute illnesses, among others. Most health professionals nowadays recommend the use of hypnosis to treat their clients facing different conditions. Some of the uses of hypnosis include: 
 


 
Treatment of phobias and fears 
 


 
Unreasonable irrational fear or phobia of anything can be treated through the use of hypnotism. Many people struggle with phobias on a daily basis, causing them not to function normally. Some of the fears that paralyze people are fear of spiders or arachnophobia, fear of enclosed spaces or claustrophobia, fear of heights, snakes, flying or agoraphobia; the fear of leaving home. A hypnotherapist will work with a patient while under hypnotism to try and identify the reasons for the fears and work on finding solutions to them. 
 


 
Stopping smoking 
 


 
There are people that want to stop their habit of smoking, but it becomes very difficult. Most smokers attempt several times to quit smoking and find themselves falling back. Regardless of how committed a smoker is to cease smoking, it is not easy and they may need help to do so. A hypnotherapist may be able to help them. In a relaxed environment, the therapist works on understanding the various stress factors in the life of the client that may be causing fall back to smoking every time they stop.  A therapist will go to the subconscious mind to find these reasons and make suggestions on how to stop. Once the subconscious mind has received the suggestions, it is then possible for the person to change their behavior by addressing the stress factors. 
 


 
Weight loss 
 


 
Many people struggle with weight loss and often feel they have lost the battle with food. With a qualified hypnotherapist, a person can learn more about their relationship with food. They also learn why they have no control over food and how to overcome their cravings. Through hypnosis, a therapist can suggest ways to overcome the destructive behavior and have a healthy relationship with food. 
 


 
Boosting Confidence 
 


 
There are many people that suffer from low self-esteem issues. To gain their confidence back, such people may require assistance. Most people lose confidence because they can seem to embrace their good qualities. A therapist can help such a person find their confidence by tapping on their best qualities that are subconsciously hidden. 
 


 
Anesthesiology during surgery 
 


 
There are cases where a surgeon may hire a hypnotherapist to supplement medical anesthesia. In some extremely rare cases, hypnotherapy has been used solely as an anesthetic during a surgical procedure. Some procedures that surgeons have used hypnotherapy include the removal of the gall bladder, cesarean, hysterectomy, and amputation. There are patients that have sensitiveness and allergies of chemicals used in anesthesia. However, they can still benefit from health-improving and life-saving procedures through the use of hypnotherapy.  
 


 
Hypnosis has been credited with improving the lives of many people. For cognitive-behavioral therapy, hypnotism has been known to help many patients transform their thoughts and, in effect, changing their outward behaviors for better. 
 


 
Types of Hypnotherapy
 
 


 
There are many types of hypnotherapy techniques used in the world today. Depending on the need of the client and the therapist, different therapies can be used to treat a given condition. However, here we are going to discuss some of the most common hypnotherapies available. 
 


 
Cognitive hypnotherapy 
 


 
Cognitive hypnotherapy uses hypnosis to align the subconscious mind with the conscious one and the way it understands reality. Cognitive hypnotherapy is most useful for dealing with anxiety and phobias, although it can also be used for other conditions. 
 


 
Ericksonian hypnotherapy 
 


 
Milton Erickson was a family psychiatrist and a medical hypnotist. He brought a revolution in the use of hypnotherapy to approach many issues. Ericksonian hypnotherapy uses storytelling to change behavior while the patient is under hypnosis. 
 


 
Hypno-psychotherapy 
 


 
This is an approach where hypnosis is used alongside another type of psychotherapy like mindfulness, psychodynamic, among others. Therapists that offer this kind of therapy often have training in psychotherapy as well as hypnotherapy. Through hypnotherapy, a therapist can be able to analyze more deep-seated issues and is helpful for individuals that feel they need more. 
 


 
Hypnoanalysis 
 


 
It draws from analytical psychotherapy concepts. Hypnoanalysis looks to know a trigger or a cause of an event that leads to the problem at hand. By understanding the root of a problem, the hypnotherapist helps in resolving negative associations that come from the issue. This process can take several sessions because it needs the patient and the therapist to build a trusting relationship. 
 


 
Neuro-linguistic Programming (NLP) 
 


 
This is a technique hypnotherapist’s use often in their practice. This technique is designed to help patients help themselves to reach their best state of mind and attain happiness. 
 


 
Past life regression 
 


 
Therapists that use this technique believe each person has a past and they use hypnosis to recover past memories. They believe these memories are able to help understand why a person is struggling with various issues and understand who they are better. This is a holistic therapy that works the mind, spirit, body, and emotions. Past life regression is especially useful where a person feels stuck on certain issues of the past. 
 


 
Solution-focused hypnotherapy 
 


 
This kind of hypnotherapy focuses on the present. It looks at your current situation to determine your future would look like. This kind of therapy is centered on the client, meaning the client takes the lead in the session while being guided by the hypnotherapist. In this session, a client focuses on setting goals and questioning techniques that one needs to get solutions. It is based on the premise that a client has inner strength and resources to draw upon and help themselves. 
 


 
Suggestion hypnotherapy 
 


 
In most types of hypnotherapy, suggestion techniques are employed. The premise behind the use of hypnotherapy is that when a person is in a hypnotic state, their subconscious is more open to suggestions or advice. During hypnotherapy, suggestions are given that are aimed at helping alter the thought pattern of the patient. If the aim is to transform behaviors, this technique is ideal and it also helps in dealing with anxiety and stress. 
 


 
Timeline Therapy 
 


 
Timeline therapy is based on the understanding that the memories of a person are stored in a linear pattern. A timeline therapist uses various techniques to help a person release beliefs that are limiting as well as negative emotions that are linked to their past. This technique is believed to be very helpful in dealing with depression, stress and anxiety disorders.
 













 




 
Milton Erickson
 


 
Hypnosis is in the roots of neuro-linguistic programming. When they were first researching and developing this method, they studied a man by the name of Dr. Milton Erickson. He has oftentimes been referred to as the “father of hypnosis.” His works have led to many different Therapies and they have helped a huge amount of people across the world.
 


 
As a teenager, he's suffered from polio. This left him bedridden and unable to do a lot of things that normal healthy people can do. It took away His ability to do most things. Basically, he lay in bed all day and could hear what was going on around him. He could also see and move his eyes around; however, he was unable to speak or truly interact with those that were near.
 


 
During this period of time, he learned to pay attention to people's body language. He could hear what was going on and surmise a lot more from the way that people were acting. It allowed him to further his theories after he became a psychologist. He learned from a young age that what people are saying is not necessarily what they are thinking and feeling. The importance of reading body language and movement became very apparent to him at the tender age of 17.
 


 
He found that it was very simple to hear somebody say yes but realize that their body language absolutely say no. As he moved on and healed from this medical disaster, he used this information in his thought process. Working through college, he continued to study people and take notice of their indirect behavior. In fact, it helped him old many of his thoughts, theories, ideas, and books.
 


 
The famed psychotherapist and psychologist thought that there was a better way to go about hypnotherapy. Rather than making hard suggestions, he believed in subtlety. Making an effort to change a person's bad behaviors in a subtle way has proven to be more effective than in a more in-your-face type of way. Part of why his ways worked better than others is he truly believes that you need to understand where the person you are working with is coming from. This promotes a better understanding of how you need to help them and what specific behaviors they need to work on changing.
 


 
Erickson believed that a person's history only played a small role in their therapy. You do need a basic idea of what has happened in someone's life; however, a little bit of information goes a long way. He believes that focusing on the past didn't necessarily help to make changes in the present. With this belief, he would only put a small amount of effort into learning about somebody's personal history.
 


 
He found that focusing on what is happening in the here and now is more imperative to the person you are trying to improve. When somebody realizes that you are truly compassionate about their situation and want to help them, they are more accepting of making changes. Working through issues of the past may be important in some instances, but for the most part, looking at what is happening right now is more important.
 


 
Erickson worked on a method called indirect hypnosis. He believed that people go through different stages of hypnotic trances through their daily lives. Have you ever been on your way to work and get there without realizing that you drove there at all? Many people call this autopilot; however, it really is a state of trance. While this may be an example of a very light trance, it is still a good one. There are varying levels of hypnotic trances and depending on where you're at your mind's ability to take direct or indirect suggestions will also vary.
 


 
Most people tend to find indirect hypnosis to be more ethical. In a clinical setting, it also tends to be more beneficial. Indirect hypnosis relies on body movements, subtle suggestions, stories, metaphors, and even jokes to help improve how patients are feeling and how they behave. Rather than having an in-your-face way of dealing with people, his subtlety improves the responses that he would get. Naturally, people push against being said something directly if it is not how they feel or what they believe. So, his ability to indirectly influence thought patterns became exceptionally beneficial to not only his patients but others that use his theories.
 


 
Direct hypnosis is much more abrasive. It is commanding of behavior from a person rather than suggesting it. People tend to fight against this more vehemently. Let's face it; none of us want to be told what to do, whether we are in a trance or not. The indirect approach does tend to have much better results than the direct approach. Typically, direct hypnosis is performed on oneself. There are benefits to this type of hypnosis; however, and a clinical setting it is simply not as good.
 
 


 
A good example to look at the differences in these two methods is to think about if somebody told you, “Don't eat that piece of cake it.” as compared to “You may actually be bored, not hungry, what about doing something else?”. You can easily see the differences in these statements. People are much more apt to go with the second question rather than taking a command from their therapist. It is much more comfortable for both people involved to use a subtle type of hypnosis rather than a direct approach.
 


 
We can't disagree with people when they state that they feel that direct hypnosis is unethical. It leaves the person being hypnotized with very little power. While our brains will not take to this type of hypnosis as easily it can be done. Put into the hands of the wrong person, it could put you and your safety into jeopardy. Indirect hypnosis empowers the person that is undergoing, it whereas direct can make them feel small and powerless.
 


 
When NLP was being developed, Erickson was one of the main focuses on the group researching it. They put together what they referred to as the Milton Model, which are the methodologies that Erickson was using on a daily basis with his patients. In addition, it is the technique that we're becoming truly successful for him. He was known to have better rates of success with his patients than many others, which is why they focused on his work when putting together their ideas for neuro-linguistic programming.
 


 
There are three main points that they came up with for this model. The first aspect that they focused on was building rapport. Erickson understood that it was very important for his clientele to trust him and open up to him. He was able to build a fast rapport with his people by showing true compassion and concern for them. He would also use techniques like body language mirroring to make people feel more comfortable. He was naturally relaxed and paid attention to things like his facial expressions and tone of voice. All of these things play a major role in building confidence between people.
 


 
The next aspect that they focused on was overloading conscious attention. This is a confusing tactic. By confusing the active mind, it opens up the subconscious mind to suggestion. He would do this by speaking in vague ways. He would use complex language patterns and words that most people would not commonly understand. This would throw the rational brain into a motive confusion and open up his ability to impact the subconscious mind. Ambiguity equals out to a lot of confusion for a rational mind. In doing this, he was able to make better suggestions to a subconscious mind as it is more open.
 


 
The last aspect that was studied in this model was the use of indirect communication. Trying to get somebody to change the way they do something or the way they believe can be difficult when taking a direct approach. When we are told exactly what to do, it is likely that we are going to do the opposite. By using an indirect approach, he was able to influence people to make better decisions and change the behaviors that they were looking to improve. It was easily seen that this indirect approach worked much better than the direct approach that many others had tried in the past.
 


 
 
 


 
Ericksonian Hypnosis
 


 
There are several different techniques that are linked to Ericksonian Hypnosis. Each technique will help to encourage a person into a certain type of behavior or way of thinking. It is not an in-your-face approach, but each technique should be looked at individually so that we can truly understand why Erickson did the things that he did and why he did them the way that he did them. Over the course of time, his techniques have been proven effective. Some of them are more well-regarded than others; however, they all have their place in different settings.
 


 
We feel as if it is easy to see why his techniques fit so seamlessly with neuro-linguistic programming. Reading body language and paying attention to all of your senses are major components of NLP. In addition, they are pretty big pieces of his thoughts and theories. Realistically, NLP would not exist as it is today without the principles and guidance of Milton Erickson. The group of people that are behind neuro-linguistic programming or very smart to take his practices into consideration. With a good hard look at what he was doing, it is simple to understand why his methods were more effective than other psychotherapists that were practicing during his time.
 


 
The first technique that we would like to discuss is encouraging resistance. Most therapists want to direct the conversation by asking questions about specific things. Erickson took a different approach and, instead he encouraged his patient to talk about what they wanted to talk about. Due to the fact that these people were given a choice in what they were talking about, it ended up that they were telling him more than anyone else when you are leaving a conversation that can be very empowering and you are more apt to provide extra information then when you are being asked specific questions.
 


 
Another technique that he frequently used was seeding ideas. Rather than using a direct approach, when people were in a trance, he would tell stories and use metaphors to help manipulate the unconscious mind. The human brain is much more susceptible to accepting this type of idea rather than one that is blatantly obvious. It allows us to come up with our own versions of the idea and feel as if it is our own rather than someone else's, which is ultimately, easier to accept.
 


 
He is also famous for his handshake technique. It is actually a very involved process but one that works quite well. A handshake is one of the most common forms of politeness when greeting a person. You can see this gesture happen all across the globe before a meeting starts, when you get to somebody's event, or through simple daily interactions. Whether people realize it or not, when you shake someone's hand, your brain is on autopilot. You simply do it without thinking and this is a trance-like state of mind. In turn, this means that your mind is more open to suggestions.
 


 
Many people experienced this handshake with him, and it was discussed frequently in his books. There is a lot to learn in this technique and it can be very beneficial when trying to help people change their thought patterns and behaviors. He started his handshake with a firm grasp, but then in the middle of it loosened it up and moved his fingers to touch certain pieces of a person's hand. This interrupts the autopilot thought pattern that goes along with a handshake. There was a lot more to it then this information; however, it would take far too long to explain it in detail. Be aware, there is plenty of information on this particular technique if you wanted more information.
 


 
Erickson was also Infamous for using techniques of confusion. In fact, you can see it through every piece of his theories on therapy. When you confuse the conscious mind, it makes the subconscious mind more susceptible to indirect suggestions. He would have accomplished this confusion in a variety of ways. Using complex language, metaphors, jokes, and uncommon words, he was able to change a person's thought pattern. By distracting a person's main train of thought, he was able to make indirect suggestions to their subconscious mind.
 
 


 
Another technique that works exceptionally well is focusing on the positive. By emphasizing the positive points of a person’s negative tendencies, you can get them to behave in a different way. It is a bit like reverse psychology. Erickson had a lot to overcome in his life. As a young child, he got polio and it forced him to learn to use his other senses. This is how he became so good at reading body language and seeing what was actually going on. Sure, this had left him to tone-deaf, partially paralyzed, and colorblind, but in return, it allowed him to learn how to truly read people. Pointing out the positives that can be found in negative situations and behaviors is truly advantageous in a therapeutic situation.
 


 
The last technique in his theories that we want to look at is his use of shock therapy. We are not talking about using electrodes to blast electricity into someone. His version of shock therapy was to help people face their fears. His version of shock therapy was more like surprise therapy. When people were dealing with ridiculous issues like not leaving their homes because they felt as if they had small feet he was known to stomp on their foot and explain how anyone could want to be with somebody who has such large feet. Oftentimes, this left them feeling silly and they then had the ability to move on past such a silly fear.
 


 
This technique is by far the least accepted of all of his. Most people are not happy with this technique as they feel it is stepping over a boundary. It is a bit abrasive. You won't find this technique and a lot of the training that is revolving around his thoughts and ideas. While it may be pushing some bounds, it was quite effective for the people that he used it on the web. Conquering fears can be extremely difficult and when they are pushed in front of you, it can be easier to deal with on the hole.
 


 
There is a huge number of people that can benefit from the work that this psychologist did. It can help to combat a variety of different psychosis and ailments within the human mind. It has been proven over time that his theories work much better than many others. There are practical applications of his thoughts and techniques that people use in their everyday lives consistently. They have found that it leads to a better quality of life and a more stable mental environment.
 


 
People who suffer from obsessive-compulsive disorder, phobias, addiction, obesity issues, or problems with controlling their habits can find great benefit from his teachings. The way that he went about helping people with these types of disorders was quite a bit different than others in his field at the time. Today, his practices are commonly seen in many different types of therapy. People also use these techniques when they are trying to lose weight, work on their relationships, or they are trying to manage their pain. They're truly are a plethora of different applications that his methodologies can be used in.
 


 
Many therapists and psychologists today rely on the works of Erickson. This is because his tactics have been proven quite effective over the course of time. You will find his teachings and techniques being used in marriage counseling, family therapy, behavioral disorder therapist, and many others in the same realm. You may even find that nurses and medical professionals use some of his techniques when dealing with people. Realistically, you can see his practice is all over the world. This is true because so many of the things that he researched and truly believed in working and helping to make people the best versions of themselves. Additionally, they have helped to correct negative behaviors that people have been struggling with for their entire lives.
 


 
Neuro-linguistic programming and Ericksonian Hypnosis go hand-in-hand. One can be used without the other; however, many people find that using them together will give the best results. Many therapists throughout the globe use them in conjunction with each other because it is such a solid method for helping people get over a variety of different issues. Whether you are struggling with Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder or overeating. this type of therapy can be very beneficial in helping you overcome the problem.
 


 
Neuro-linguistic programming and Ericksonian Hypnosis are both based on subtlety. They allow you to change your way of thinking by learning more about what's going on inside of you and around you. With small changes come much larger ones in the grand scheme of things. By combining the efforts of three different psychologists and therapists, NLP was born.
 


 
When the group that put together the thoughts and ideas on neuro-linguistic programming decided to study different therapists, they found some common denominators and all of them. Each of these people for finding greater success with their patients than most others. Why was this? Well, because they paid attention to the fine details of human behavior. They not only listen to what their clients had to say, but they watched what they were doing. In looking at their body language and adjusting their own, they were able to truly build a great rapport and level of trust with the people they were working with.
 


 
Erickson's version of hypnosis was quite a different thing than the direct approaches that many others were taking. It appeared to be more ethical because it was more suggestive than in your face. When we are learning about neuro-linguistic programming, it is all about noticing subtleties and people. Not only in people, but also in ourselves. It's paying attention to facial movements, voice inflection, posture, and general body movements. These are all subtleties that are not usually paid attention to buy the average person. By combining what they have learned from each of the psychotherapist and psychologist that they studied is that these subtle tactics simply worked better than others.
 


 
Ericksonian hypnosis takes advantage of the unconscious mind. It is a bit about distraction. By keeping the focused mind, a bit confused our subconscious is more susceptible to taking suggestions. Not only that, it's not really taking a direct order but figuring out the best course of action through storytelling, jokes, and redirection. We all go through trance-like States on a daily basis and Erickson simply learned to take advantage of that to help people become better. His theories help set the basis for neuro-linguistic programming.
 


 
 
 


 
We all have similar patterns in the way that we speak, think, and act. The patterns are consistent and easy to see when you know what you are looking for. With training in NLP and Ericksonian hypnosis, it becomes easier and easier to see exactly what you are looking at. This will allow you, as a therapist, to help people gain better control over their thought patterns and their lives.
 


 
These teachings can also help people in their everyday lives. Let's face it, there are a lot of bad people out there that are wishing to do harmful things to you or people that you love. Having the skills and abilities to notice the small changes in their demeanor can help you pinpoint the people that are up to no good. It does take a lot of practice and hard work to be able to spot these small inconsistencies in the way people are behaving, however, it is truly advantageous and keeping yourself safe.
 


 
For more than forty years NLP and Ericksonian Hypnosis has been very successful in treating people. As noted, the subtlety of this form of therapy is astounding. It truly helps to reprogram someone's brain into thinking a different way.  Allowing your thought patterns to maintain the same direction that they used to but altering them has a great effect. You'll be using what used to hurt you to empower you. You will find that not everyone has great belief in these practices; however, there have been many great successes using it. That is why so many people are still studying it today.
 


 
Unlike regular forms of hypnosis, Ericksonian hypnosis gives gentle commands instead of direct one
s
—
 our brains like this form of alteration much better as it is more acceptable to our conscious mind. The effects of it tend to stick more quickly than those of standard hypnosis. In addition, the practices of neuro-linguistic programming also tend to stick around longer because they are less in your face.
 


 
These theories put together will allow someone to make truly conscious choices in their lives. Rather than running on instinct that can get you into trouble quickly, you'll be able to look at each situation and consciously decide what you want to do. Obviously, with this kind of power you need to be careful and kind to those that are around you. If you are around people that are very observant, they may notice the skills and tactics you are using to get your own way and make your own outcomes. This is what makes this kind of learning dangerous. People with ill-will in their hearts could use it against you or others around you. Knowing what to look for will keep everybody protected.
 


 
Ericksonian hypnosis can happen right in front of your eyes. It is not the type of hypnosis that we commonly think of. With subtle changes of everyday actions and the attention paid to the random trances that we go into throughout our days, it can be accomplished. He was able to do this with simple things like handshakes. So, once you start to learn these techniques, you will start to realize that there are others trying to use them against you. Knowing what you're dealing with is the biggest hurdle. The principles of these two techniques, neuro-linguistic programming and Ericksonian hypnosis, can give you true advantages in your world. It can lead to a happier and much healthier life. That is, as long as you're using it for the right reasons.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 7: How to Analyze People
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Wearing two faces is not uncommon for people that fall into the Dark Triad. It has been seen in many of the Dark Psychology theories that this is common. Someone that is pretending to be something else so that they can gain respect, power, and control is someone you don’t want on your team. You need to be careful when dealing with people you don’t know and understand that there are red flags to help you avoid becoming close with this type of toxic persona.
 


 
 
 


 
Keeping yourself well-protected from people like Adolf Hitler and Jim Jones is critical. These are, of course, extreme cases. Many people have individuals around them or very close to them, with traits that are very similar to these two men. The ability to recognize them can help improve your mental health, as well as your safety.
 


 
 
 


 
The ability to analyze the people around you can help you determine their true motives. It can be very difficult to read people and, let’s face it, some people are excellent at coving up the truth. Nefarious plots and schemes can be seen in your everyday life. Whether you are at work, at home, or out with friends, we are sure you deal with people constantly who are trying to manipulate you in one way or another. Putting time into understanding Dark Psychology can make seeing these truths about people and their intent infinitely easier. It truly does play a critical role in your ability to lead your best life.
 


 
 
 


 
Staying protected from people that have dark tendencies is important, especially in your work life. We have all had a job at one time or another that was ruled by drill sergeants. Those people that believe you build a team through fear and intimidation. Conversely, you may have had a manager that treated everyone well but realistically relied on covert scare tactics and manipulation to hold on to power and control.
 


 
 
 


 
Typically, we see more of these types of tendencies in upper management. People that focus solely on being the boss are, oftentimes, more apt to succumb to the dark pieces of human nature. They are willing to do some deplorable things to gain power, such as using intimidation tactics. Why would they work hard and fair to gain power when they can simply lie, manipulate, and deceive people to get what they want quickly?
 


 
 
 


 
You may have also experienced the co-worker that is never happy with other people’s success. The person that starts to spare rumors about you simply because you are doing well. They try to turn people, including management, against you so that you will fall, and they will succeed. Sometimes the way these people behave is very petty. Using small verbal digs to make you feel inferior. This can throw you off of your work game and ultimately lead to a loss of your job in more extreme cases.
 


 
 
 


 
Employees that are arrogant, quick to anger, condescending, or domineering can truly rip a team apart. Being assertive and nipping their annoying and detrimental behaviors in the bud can help to ensure your team stays focused and cohesive. You can also work on being aware of people’s body language and use empathy to ease a troubling situation.
 


 
 
 


 
Managing your own emotions can also help you keep a cool head and ward off any unnecessary tendencies before they become a problem. In addition, being in control of yourself can help you observe the actions that are happening around you, as it is easier to have a broader perspective. Mastering these techniques takes time but can save you a lot of drama in your workplace.
 


 
 
 


 
When you have the ability to pick out the traits of these types of people, it can help you deal with the repercussion. Instead of feeling weak and vulnerable, you will feel empowered. No longer allowing people to make you feel small or cause detriment to your career is quite freeing. Keep in mind that dealing with people that succumb to our darker sides can be very difficult.
 


 
 
 


 
It is truly important when learning about traits like cheating, manipulation, lying, and selfishness that we look in the mirror. Self-actualization is an important factor in living your best life and being a good person. So, looking at your habits and pinpointing the ones that are detrimental to those around you is important. Even more importantly is figuring out how to change them so that you can evolve into something better.
 


 
 
 


 
Finding the flaws in ourselves can be difficult. Broadening your perspective so you can see the things you do is even harder. With time and effort, however, you can truly work on these negative internal aspects to improve yourself. This is not only good for you but also for the people you come into contact with on a daily basis.
 


 
 
 


 
Having bad habits is part of life. Sometimes these habits are simply annoying, like chewing with your mouth open. Other times, it is devastating to our lives. A good example of this is telling lies to spare feelings or to stop yourself from some sort of trouble. Other excellent examples are doing things like flattering people to get your way and being extremely cynical of other people’s thoughts or beliefs.
 


 
 
 


 
Having the realization that you are doing these things does not come easy for many people. It can take a lot of hard work and dedication to truly find the ability to improve the way that you act and change your bad habits. There are a variety of ways that people have implemented to help aid them in finding their true self and dealing with their less than stellar qualities.
 


 
One option that people find to be truly helpful is participating in Meditation practices. Meditation teaches mindfulness. It helps us to become aware of the things that we experience externally and internally. When you can become aware of your surroundings, it helps encourage you to become aware of yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
Meditation helps to quiet the mind. It brings peace and clarity to the people that practice it on a daily basis. It can be a difficult skill to accomplish in the beginning, as clearing your mind is hard all. However, if you keep at it and delve into the numerous available pieces of information, learning how to meditate can be truly beneficial.
 


 
 
 


 
People tend to not only lie to others but also to themselves. This can be very small lies or major ones. A benefit to Meditation is that it will allow you to focus on the negative aspects of yourself one piece at a time. This is due to the fact that self-actualization becomes easier as you become better at meditation.
 


 
 
 


 
While many people believe that meditation is a hooky way of coping with bad behaviors, it has proven itself effective time and again. Anyone can tell you that clearing your mind and focusing on yourself works. Until you do it for yourself, you will never be able to see the true power to overcome that it gives so many individuals.
 


 
 
 


 
For many of us, studying oneself to become better is a major part of our lives, for others, not so much. People that fall into one or more of the Dark Triad groups, typically, have no wishes to become better. They don’t see anything wrong with their behavior or the way that they affect people. It is not surprising to find out that many of the people in these groups are criminals.
 


 
 
 


 
As noted, there are three categories in the Dark Triad, and it is clear to see why the behaviors of the people that fit into them are not good for anyone. It is important to understand that Psychopathy, Narcissism, and Machiavellianism have similarities but are also quite different. While it may seem that if you fit into one you could not fit into the others; however, this is simply untrue. There are absolutely people in the world that hold traits from all three categories and that can be catastrophic for the people around them.
 


 
 
 


 
Over the years, measuring people's tendency towards darkness and bad behavior has changed. It used to be that Psychologists would simply look over individual types of personalities. Roughly twenty-years ago a new system was put into place.
 


 
 
 


 
Dr. Peter Jonason and Psychology Professor Gregory Webster put together a series of 12 questions to help determine if people fall into any of the categories of the Dark Triad. They developed this “test” in 2010 and it is still widely used today. Basically, it is a scale to figure out how malevolent you are.
 
 


 
 
 


 
If you were to participate in this series of questions, you might be surprised at your own responses. It can help give you an idea of what you may need to work on to become a better person. You will find a better sense of self by looking over how you act with other people.
 


 
 
 


 
As noted, there are twelve different statements that you will rate yourself against. It asks that you respond to statements like, “I flatter people to get what I want out of them,” and “There is nothing wrong with manipulating people for my own gain,” With these types of statements, it is easy to piece together how people react to situations and whether or not they are wired towards the darkness or the light.
 


 
 
 


 
People that fit easily into one or more of the Dark Triad tend to be quite anti-social. This is especially true of the Psychopath; however, it could be seen in any of the three categories. When someone excludes themselves from others, it becomes easier for them to lose empathy and emotion. The differences in right and wrong can become more and more difficult to see when you seclude yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
Anti-social behaviors are one of the key signs to the fact that someone may be struggling with the negative behaviors we see. It can lead to dramatic outbursts. In addition, the few people they do keep around can be in serious trouble. When a person doesn’t know how to interact or chooses not to, it will impact every part of their life. When that same person is prone to violence, manipulation, deceit, or exploitation, the negative impact on those around them is devastating.
 


 
 
 


 
Criminals are, typically, anti-social in their behavior. It is seen throughout history and it’s sure to be seen in the future. People that are inclined to commit crimes almost always have traits that put them into one of the Dark Triad categories. Due to this fact, understanding each category is critical in developing solid strategies to track down and stop criminals.
 


 
 
 


 
A large piece of what has allowed law enforcement and other organizations to track down these dark presences is Dark Psychology. Knowledge is power and when we can identify what things like body language and verbiage mean, tracking down criminals can become easier. The connection between criminal desires and the Dark Triad is clear to see, and with the institution of Dark Psychology it can be easier to deal with.
 


 
 
 


 
Dark Psychology, the understanding of malicious people, is a good thing for everyone to understand. While the big baddies of the world certainly fall into the Dark Triad, so do many other, much more common people. Not every person will become an Adolf Hitler, Jim Jones, or Charles Manson, but they can make your life increasingly unattractive. In addition, they can cause serious mental and sometimes physical harm to you and the people you care about.
 


 
 
 


 
Deciding to spend the time to learn how to recognize these behaviors and how to handle them is advantageous to every person in the world. Regardless of your lot in life, taking a good hard look at the people around you can help you uncover their true intentions. While we would like to say everyone in your life is there for a positive reason, it is very unlikely that it is actually true.
 


 
 
 


 
Body Language
 


 
The power of persuasion means nothing more than using mental abilities to form words and feelings used to convince other people to do things they may or may not want to do spontaneously. Some people are more capable to persuade than others and some people are easier to persuade than others.    
 


 
The ease of persuading other people is directly connected to their current mental or emotional state. Someone who is lonely or tired is easier to persuade, simply because their defense mechanism is lowered. Someone who is momentarily needy may be easier to persuade than someone who has a strong sense of self-worth. People who are at a low point in their lives are easy prey for others who might try to persuade them to do something they might not usually do.    
 


 
The first step in persuasion involves the idea of reciprocating. If a person does something nice for someone else, then the receiving usually feels the need to do something good in return.  
 


 
As an example, if someone helps their elderly neighbor carry in groceries from the car, that neighbor might feel obligated to bake homemade cookies for that person. A coworker who helps complete a project is more likely to receive assistance when it is needed. Many people do nice things for others all the time without expecting anything in return. The person who does nice things for people and then mentions some little favor that can be done in return may be someone to watch closely.  He or she lacks in genuine purpose.  
 


 
There are ways to improve the power of persuasion. Just like any other trait, it can be made stronger by following a few strategies and by regular practice.    
 


 
Did you know that your body speaks more eloquently than words? Body language is at work constantly whether you are aware of it or not. When you want to master the art of persuasion, you need not only to understand (and read accurately) body language but also learn to use it to drive your point home.     
 


 
Body language is a mix of hand and facial gestures, posture and overall appearance. You can decide to use these to your advantage and you will make people to do what you want without them realizing that you are actually controlling the outcome of the discussion.     
 


 
Why people are persuasive    
 


 
What makes a person convincing? Why are they persuasive, and you aren’t? There is no single, short answer to that question.     
 


 
Confidence is the absolute most important aspect when it comes to persuasion.  
 


 
There’s no doubt it’s been scientifically proven that it’s easier to persuade people when you’re confident, when you believe in yourself and trust the message you are passing to the other person. That’s because, through your attitude, people convince themselves that you’re an authority on the topic and they’ll listen to you, because they have no knowledge or experience, but you seem to have both.     
 


 
In this framework, it’s also crucial to understand that humans are doubtful creatures. We’re not very confident and we don’t really believe in our own abilities or even experience, so when someone comes along and appears to be confident and to know more, we follow them like a herd of dim sheep.     
 


 
Persuasion is just as much about the impression you leave upon people as it is about your actual skill. Like many other times in life, appearances are more “real” than actual reality, because that is all other people will ever know about you. It doesn’t matter if deep inside, you’re insecure or you don’t really think you know what you’re doing.     
 


 
On the outside, you’re this dazzling, confident creature that can persuade anyone into anything because you’ve mastered all the important contributing factors: confidence, eye contact, body language, manner of speaking, tone, facial expressions, as well as your general demeanor.    
 


 
Confidence    
 


 
How do you think so many scammers make a living?  
 


 
Now, I’m not advocating that you try to trick people, but I am simply suggesting that we have to work on our confidence. You’ll notice that every single person you find convincing has some sort of authoritative stance. It’s like their presence demands attention and respect.     
 


 
Eye contact    
 


 
Eye contact is a classic, natural display of dominance. It’s a technique that’s even present in the animal kingdom. Be extremely mindful when it comes to “using your eyes” since they are the first tool you can use during an encounter and the way you decide to use them can determine the outcome of such a meeting. Eye contact can intimidate, eye contact can attract and push your imagination, create desire and interest, use them consciously and effectively.     
 


 
Body language    
 


 
Do you know how often people underestimate body language, or just ignore it outright? Body language is an incredible tool for persuasion. People are always advised to display open body language, like facing your audience, making sure not to keep your arms crossed against your chest, keep your palms open, and all sorts of little tips that we’ll discuss at length.     
 


 
What you maybe haven’t heard is that in order to be effectively persuasive, you also need to take note of and use the body language of the person you’re talking to. You need to observe carefully your counterparty and, by detecting his/her body language predict his/her attitude towards you in real time. 
 


 
Manner of speaking    
 


 
Your choice of words is overwhelmingly important when attempting to convince someone, because it must be very deliberate. There’s a clear strategy behind verbal persuasion, and it relies on appealing to the person’s emotions.     
 


 
The way you speak and what you say are both equally important, because even though your message may be perfect, if the delivery is lacking, it won’t do much good. We’ve already established that speaking with authority is half the battle, but you also have to speak the right words, in order to win it.  If your aim is to persuade, go to the meeting fully prepared about the topic and try some rehearsal before that, so you will have the possibility to observe the counterparty attitude and response while you are talking, in real time, and adjust your speech and body language. 
 


 
Tone    
 


 
Continuing on the idea that the way you say things is vastly important, let’s talk about tone and why it matters. In fact, I lied when I said tone and message are equally important: tone weighs much more on a person’s impression.     
 


 
If someone has a very somber voice, a serious, measured tone, and an equally severe facial expression, it almost doesn’t matter what they’re saying – you’re going to assume it’s grave and important; the actual words or what they mean matters less. A joke told with a serious tone is not perceived as funny at all.     
 


 
Facial expressions    
 


 
Facial expression goes hand in hand with body language and eye contact and is similarly important to tonality. Creating the impression that you mean what you say involves your face, because it will be the very first to betray you or, on the contrary, help you enforce your message.     
 


 
What you can obtain through persuasion    
 


 
Persuasion is a very powerful and very valuable skill that everyone should have and learn how to master and use in a positive, constructive way. It comes in handy throughout your life in virtually any aspect of your existence, from sweet-talking your way into free movie tickets to convincing your boss you deserve a raise.     
 


 
Your relationship with your spouse    
 


 
Far from being unfair or manipulative, having the ability to convince your significant other can actually improve your relationship because you can have fewer discussions about your disagreements and lack of compromise. Now you can use all that extra time and energy to implementing your superior decisions.    
 


 
Your relationship with your kids    
 


 
Persuasion skills and indisputable power and authority to convince your kids to actually listen to you and follow your advice is an essential educational tool. Master daily affirmation about your parenting abilities, work on your confidence when talking to them, use eye contact and body language in the most difficult moments to attract their attention and stop their negative behavior. You will realize that your mental attitude will lead and guide your body language. Guide your thinking and master it to obtain the highest level of positive persuasion with your children. 
 


 
Your relationship with your friends    
 


 
We all have that one friend who always makes terrible life choices and no one can get through to them and steer them towards the right path… except you, that is. If you have influence and persuasion skills, don’t keep them for yourself. Use them for good, not evil.     
 


 
Get paid what you deserve    
 


 
Negotiating falls under persuasion, absolutely everyone should master this skill. You need to have the ability to convince your ‘opponent’ that you deserve an increase and you should have it.    
 


 
This advice mostly applies to the workplace, where – let’s be real – no boss will ever willingly part with their money and hand it over to you. This is the reason why you must convince them to do it. You’ve earned it, you deserve it, and it’s rightfully yours. You have to ask for it, but you have to know-how, and persuasive skills help with that.     
 


 
Start with your daily affirmations about the concept of abundance and being enough to prepare your mindset; “you deserve more and are made for more,” and it is just to your counterparty, your boss, to accept it and see it. Master daily affirmations to prepare your subconscious mind to fully accept this idea: you are more and deserve more.  
 


 
Prepare yourself for the meeting and visualize the situation, get emotionally involved, experience the conversation and feel it. This will help you prepare to get out of your comfort zone.   
 


 
Work carefully on your body language, make straight eye contact at the beginning of the meeting and use a soft but precise tone, outdistance the words, the sentence and prepare the speech so that the “opponent” will perceive and feel your confidence.  
 


 
Earn the trust and respect of your boss    
 


 
You can accomplish that by becoming their go-to person. Offer your bright ideas, come up with solutions to problems the company is facing, persuade them to implement your suggestions and that they’re the contribution the company needs right now. In time, you will reap the rewards when your boss comes to consult with you first.     
 


 
Be a good leader to your colleagues    
 


 
Your persuasive abilities will prove to be invaluable and will bring you to a position like this if you want people to respect you, your work, and your ideas. It should be obvious to everyone that your way is the right way and there will be minimal dissent if you have the necessary influence over them.    
 


 
 
 


 
If you can talk the talk well enough, you can basically convince anyone to tell you anything. Preferred customer sale dates from sales attendants, and even gossip from your friends, you get the idea. Sweet talk yourself into perks and valuable info. Follow the steps above listed and when it comes to the meeting with people, remember not to ask direct questions, but let me talk about the topic and be aligned with the interlocutor without being assertive or disruptive about the topic otherwise the person will never open up and a rapport will never form. 
 


 
How to Persuade People    
 


 
The ability to influence someone during a conversation and make them take a decision is necessary in order to become one of the most important people in the world today.  
 


 
This ability is useful in business negotiations, and in everyday life.    
 


 
In general, the impact on people is not so obvious. The basic idea is that people’s behavior is often guided by their
 
simple subconsciou
s
 desires. And to achieve your goals, you need to understand the simple desires of people, and then make your interlocutor passionately wish for something.   
 


 
It should be noted that in order to influence people you should NOT try to impose or force them to make a hasty decision, or to go for something they did not even consider.  
 


 
The first step is to try to reach a mutually beneficial cooperation.  
 


 
If you are willing to put yourself in the shoes of another person from whom you want to get something and understand his/her thoughts, then you do not have to worry about your relationship with the person.  
 


 
The secret lies in the ability to help the self-affirmation of the interlocutor.  
 


 
What does this mean? 
 


 
We have to make sure that your companion looks decent in his own eyes. He needs to feel at ease; you need to be able to establish a rapport whereby the person feels she/he can trust you. The person needs to feel she/he can trust you and establish a rapport, that he can open up himself to his interlocutor without feeling that the latter has a specific expectation on him. 
 


 
Moreover, in order to have influence and control over another person, you must know their personality and behavioral traits. Most importantly, learn how to use this knowledge to master the specific methods and techniques of influence and control the behavior of the other, on the basis of his outlook, character, personality type and other important psychological features.    
 


 
To help people to look beyond the limits of consciousness, professionals use a variety of methods and techniques. One of the most effective of these is hypnosis.  
 


 
This method can directly influence the psyche, whose essence consists of the introduction of a human narrowed state of consciousness, making it is easy to control someone else's suggestion and management.    
 


 
The ability to manage people, primarily, is to combine the knowledge of human psychology and their personal characteristics. They help to change their own behavior so that this change will cause the desired reaction in others.  
 


 
Try to be more observant while communicating; it will help you better understand the individual psychological characteristics of the interlocutor. Based on this knowledge, try using the following methods and techniques that will help you manage people correctly and efficiently. 















 


 
Chapter 8: Communication
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Communication comes in two different categories, verbal and non-verbal. Understanding both can help you understand people better, as a whole. We need to look at them separately and discuss the details to promote a solid base of knowledge around communication. Let’s start with verbal communication.
 


 
Not only do good communication skills make it easier for you to understand other people, it also makes it easier for them to understand you. While some people are very effective communicators, others truly need to work on it. Taking a look in the mirror and participating in some communication activities can help you understand how well you are communicating with the people around you. You may be surprised to find that you have some work to do.
 


 
As it sounds, verbal communication is communication with words. This piece seems obvious; however, did you know that there are four different types of verbal communication? Most people don’t look at it this closely; however, it can help us understand what people are really trying to say to us. Each type of verbal communication can give us insight into ourselves, as well as others.
 


 
The first type is intrapersonal communication. This is the conversations we have with ourselves internally. While we figure out a difficult problem or are working out our grocery list, we all spend time in our own heads talking. Intrapersonal communication is very different between people. Some of us are very good at building ourselves up while others tear themselves apart with their thoughts.
 


 
It is not uncommon for criminals and those that fall into the Dark Triad to have terrible intrapersonal communication skills. They may literally feel as if they have a tiny devil inside their brain that always wins over the even smaller angel. Intrapersonal communication should not be confused with schizophrenia, that condition is quite different.
 


 
The next type of verbal communication is interpersonal communication. This is the conversation that you have with just one other person. Sometimes, people handle one on one conversations very well because it is more personal. In addition to being more personal, it also tends to leave you a bit more vulnerable. This is because the sole focus of the conversation is between the two of you.
 


 
If someone is trying to manipulate you, it is likely they are going to try and get you off on your own. Working against someone one-on-one is always going to be easier than trying to persuade or manipulate a crowd. On your own, you need to keep your defenses up. People that are trying to manipulate you will spend the time to look at your verbal and nonverbal communication skills. This helps them to pinpoint what they need to do to get you to bend to their will.
 


 
Then there is small-group verbal communication. Obviously, there will be more than two people involved here; however, a small group for verbal communication is not exactly defined. It is a number of people that can all be actively involved in the conversation. Think of things like team meetings at work or press conferences. Everyone is taking their turn to give their opinions and thoughts.
 


 
Small group communication is where most people thrive. It's not nearly as intense as a one-on-one conversation and it is not as intimidating as speaking in front of a large crowd. You will still need to pay attention to your verbal and nonverbal skills when dealing with a small group to make sure that you are promoting a clear and concise understanding of what it is that you are saying.
 


 
Manipulators that are very charismatic thrive in this type of conversation. They are good at getting the attention of the group. In turn, they are good at getting that group to see things from their point of view. It is more of a game to them than anything else. Gaining control is all they are looking for and some do it very successfully.
 


 
The last type of verbal communication is public communication. When we are dealing with public communication, there is, typically, only one speaker. They will be addressing a larger crowd. Election speeches are a very good example of this. You need to remember that many people will conduct themselves differently in public than they do in private. Looking for drastic changes can clue you into the darker tendencies of verbal communication.
 


 
Conquering the art of good communication is hard. There are a variety of factors that equal good communication and the words you pick are only part of it. Most people need to work on their communication skills but be aware that those that are scheming against you will focus on it.
 


 
The way a criminal communicates verbally can make or break their plans. Being careful with what they say, they are able to more easily persuade and manipulate those that are around them. When you have improved communication skills, it can make it easier to pick up on the trick’s others are using around you.
 


 
So, what does it take to communicate effectively in a verbal manner? You need to be friendly and kind in the things that you say. In addition, thinking before you speak plays a major role. Those that prattle on without thinking tend to be looked down on and people tend to stop listening as they simply never stop talking. If you have this bad habit, you will find that people look at their cell phones more while you are talking, talk with others around them, or simply go into a trance state until you stop talking.
 


 
Your word choice also is a component that needs to be considered. Thinking about the crowd that is in front of you or the person that you are speaking with individuals can help you communicate with them effectively. Knowing what their common languages and the words they typically use can give you clues as to how you need to handle them. When you take these types of things into consideration, people are more apt to open to you and tell you what is really going on. It gives you some common ground with them and makes you more relatable.
 


 
Effective verbal communication also takes confidence. When you are solid in the things you are saying it shows. Be well prepared with your thoughts and people will be able to understand you. Giving others time to speak their piece is also very important in verbal communication. When someone feels like you don't give them time to talk, they start to tune you out. It's very rude when there is only one person talking and other people have things to say. Obviously, if you are giving a speech, the people that are there are not going to be doing much talking. So, you will need to take your surroundings in the consideration to figure out how much you should actually be saying and how much you should be listening.
 
 


 
Sometimes, it is very hard to say exactly what you mean. Being concise in what you are saying is important. If there is a lot of fluff in your thoughts, it can be confusing to the person listening. This could lead to questions that do not relate to what you are talking about at all. In addition, telling a story in a streamed line is important. If you jump from one point to another, it causes a lot of confusion and a lack of Interest. Here again, spending the time to think about what you want to say before you say it will be advantageous.
 


 
Verbal communication can be really difficult for some people. They may not be comfortable speaking in public or exactly the opposite and become increasingly awkward when put into a one on one situation. There are different strategies that can help you become better at verbal communication, regardless of what type makes you uncomfortable.
 


 
There are a variety of different activities that you can try to make yourself a better and more comfortable verbal communicator. With a few minutes a day you can find the tact and confidence to say what you really mean. This can be a major benefit in life and lead to fewer misunderstandings and drama.
 
 


 
You can get yourself a word of the day calendar, thesaurus, or use an app for a similar type of thing. By broadening your vocabulary, you will have the words you need, regardless of the crowd you are in. Be mindful of things like common language. If you want people to listen, they need to be able to understand what you are saying. So, using the words that the people around you use will ensure they are on the same page as you.
 


 
Expressing our wants and needs can be difficult, especially for kids and teenagers. This is partially due to all of the electronic devices we are stuck in nowadays. Sending a message makes it easy to feel confident and say what you mean, but when that same thing needs to be said out loud it can be difficult.
 


 
Parents can help their children with communication by making time without electronics. In addition, encouraging talking without distraction and taking a genuine interest in what they are saying and feeling without overreacting can promote better verbal communication.
 
 


 
Also, making sure that you communicate your feelings, needs, wants, and thoughts with your kids will encourage them to do the same with you. This goes to more people than just your children. Being open and honest with those that are around you will help them be open and honest with you. Of course, you want to be careful and not put too much trust in people. Keeping some things to yourself is advantageous and ensuring that you aren't taken advantage of.
 


 
We all know that practice makes perfect. If you are trying to become more comfortable with public speaking, you need to practice. You can start by going through your speech out loud but by yourself. Then when you feel confident with what you have got a group of trusted friends and family members together. Present your speech to them. You can gain constructive criticism from those that care about you and it can truly help to calm the nerves. You can practice this way many times to build your level of confidence.
 


 
As you become more confident, it will be easier to address larger crowds. Working on things like your pitch, tone, and pace can also make you a more confident speaker. When you truly believe the words, you are saying and can say them with conviction you will be more confident. Practicing will certainly help here. Confidence is not only seen in these aspects. It also goes with your nonverbal communication. We will look at how to build confidence and self-esteem with nonverbal communication as you move through this chapter.
 


 
These are only a couple of the many verbal communication skills improving activities that are out there. If you truly want to learn to communicate better, there are a ton of sources out there to help you. With a bit of work and dedication, you will be much more prepared to vocalize your wants, needs, and ideas. This can give you some advantages throughout your life that a lack of communication skills could hinder, including things like promotions at work or getting hired for certain jobs. Heading to a job interview well-prepared and well-articulated is definitely going to help you land it. If you are lacking in communication skills, you can basically say goodbye to that wonderful job you're working for.
 


 
 
 


 
Non-Verbal Communication
 


 
Now we need to take a look at non-verbal communication. Have you heard of the phrase “it’s not what you say it’s how you say it”? The true meaning is behind this, what we say matters, sure, but the non-verbal cues we give are even more important. Earlier we discussed quite a bit bout Neuro-Linguistic Programming and your non-verbal communication plays a major role in this. It has been said that more than sixty percent of what you say is in your body language, not your actual words.
 


 
Learning about non-verbal communication can help you in a variety of ways. You will be more perceptive to what people are actually trying to say. You may also pick up on lies or deceit more easily. Figuring out a person’s true motivation can become much clearer when you start to pay attention to what their body is saying.
 


 
Paralanguage is part of non-verbal communication. It encompasses a couple of different areas that can help you communicate more effectively. The main pieces of it are tone, cadence, and inflection. All of these elements play a key role in what you are actually saying.
 


 
The tone of your voice plays a pretty big role in non-verbal communication, as well. It can draw a listener in or make them totally tune out. A voice that is monotone does not have any inflection. Every word comes out with the same tone and volume. The cadence of a monotone speaker tends to be slow and steady throughout their words. This can be very hard to listen too.
 


 
When you are talking with someone changing your tone can help to give them clues as to how you are feeling. It allows for better communication as we are able to express our emotions through the tone of our voices. In public speaking, having a great tone will get you everywhere. Voice inflection is just as important, and both play a big role in effective verbal communication.
 


 
If you have a flat voice or you notice that people drift off while you are talking you can practice this. Find your favorite book and practice reading it aloud with different inflections and tones. This can help you during regular conversations to get away from the monotone nature of some voices. You will notice that people around you are more engaged and what you say matters more than it did before.
 


 
Para communication is only a piece of non-verbal communication. What else do we need to consider when trying to be better non-verbal communicators? This is a tough question as there is quite a bit that encompasses non-verbal communication. We can take a bit of time and look at the tip of the iceberg but know that people spend years studying non-verbal communication.
 
 


 
Reading someone’s facial expressions is a major tool in non-verbal communication. There are many exercises that teach us what facial expressions are saying. Some of them are very straightforward. If you look at someone that is smiling it, typically, means they are happy or enjoying what they are doing. However, a smile can be deceiving.
 


 
Smiling can also be a sign of anxiety. When people want to fit in but don’t know how to do that, they will smile to look more approachable and less nervous. Tight lips can give away these smiles. You may also notice that a smile on someone’s face simply looks fake. If you feel this way, it likely is. That goes along with going with your gut.
 


 
The more you notice about someone’s expression, the more you can tell about them. Sure, picking out a smile or a frown is easy but, what about the smaller harder to see expressions. Our faces have up to ten thousand different movement patterns and believe it or not, they all mean something. Learning more about what facial twitches and twists mean can help you pick out the rats among the group.
 


 
Kinesics, or body movement, also play a major role in non-verbal communication. The gestures that we make during conversations tell a lot about how we are feeling. If we are interested in what is being said or we are nervous about it. Paying attention to how people’s bodies are moving will tell you volumes about what they are thinking and feeling.
 


 
Think about the last meeting you were sitting in, did you see the person nervously drumming their fingers on the table or their thighs? This is a sign of boredom, irritability, and nervousness. This can be very distracting to a group and should be avoided. If you are one to take to these body movements, keep in mind that the best thing you can do is keep your hands on the table. Clasping them can help keep you from the annoying drumming that your feelings are pushing you toward.
 


 
We are used to the meaning of some body movements. When we are having a conversation and someone is looking at us and nodding as we speak, we know this means they are paying attention and actively listening to what we have today. Some may be nodding but not actually engaged. You can see this through their eye movement. This could be from boredom or preoccupied thinking.
 
 


 
While both of these examples are easy to spot, there are a few body movements that aren’t as easy to determine meaning from. Someone that frequently clears their throat is likely nervous about what they are saying; however, they may just be trying to get someone’s attention that is distracted.
 


 
Nervous ticks are commonly seen in people that are going to do something against the law or something harmful to others. Unless you are deep in the traits of the Dark Triad, you likely feel some sort of guilt when doing something wrong. This can lead to body movement clues as your body is rejecting the act that is about to be performed.
 


 
Noticing these ticks can give you great insight as to the intentions of a person. It can be a simple twitch of the hand or odd mouth movements. It could even be a jerking of the head or other limbs. So, while bouncing of knees or drumming of fingers are consistent views that somebody is nervous or bored. There are tells when somebody has something worse on their mind.
 


 
Another major component in non-verbal communication is eye contact. It can be very difficult for some people to maintain eye contact. This can make you feel as if they are not listening or that they are Shifty. For some, it is neither of these things. They simply find it to be uncomfortable to look somebody in the eyes while talking.
 


 
Maintaining a certain level of eye contact with somebody you are talking to shows that you are interested and engaged in what they are saying. This does not mean that you need to stare at them the entire time that they are talking. However, frequent eye contact can truly help improve communication.
 


 
Experts have found that when looking somebody in the eye it can be more comfortable when you look at their other features as well. Varying your site to look at their eyelids, nose and around the other areas of their face can make it less uncomfortable. Of course, you will also want to take the time to actually look them in the eyes as they are speaking.
 


 
People that have committed crimes or that intend on committing crimes have a hard time maintaining contact. It has been said that the eyes are the window to the soul and there is definitely some truth in this. When you notice how somebody's eyes move and look, it can help you to determine their intent whether it be good or bad.
 
 


 
When looking at nonverbal communication and people that truly command attention, a lot of it is said through their posture. Your posture says a lot about not only you and your confidence levels but also your position in life. When we talked about your posture, we're not only speaking of when you're standing up at also plays a role when you are sitting down.
 


 
For example, if you are trying to show that you are confident, strong, and self-assured, you will stand with your shoulders back, your back straight, and your head held high. People, naturally, will think of these positive things about you if you are standing in this position. It truly does command attention. On the other hand, if you are slouched in your body is, in general, facing downward it makes you look indecisive. It may also make people think that you are weak and unable to take control of a situation.
 


 
Open and closed posture also plays a role in how people perceive you. If you are accepting of people coming up and talking to you, you will want to use an open posture. This looks like a pretty relaxed position. Your shoulders and hips will be equally spread and you won't be standing at attention. You will leave your stomach exposed rather than crossing your arms over the top of it. Standing this way makes you more approachable. It will make it so that people trust you more easily and are willing to have conversations with you at any point.
 
 


 
A closed pasture is going to have the exact opposite effect. If you were sitting in the chair with your arms crossed over your stomach and your legs crossed, as well, you are telling people to stay away. This type of positioning can make it look like you are very bored. It also tells people that you are unapproachable and unwilling to open up to them. This causes distrust and tends to lead to poor communication.
 


 
Proxemics is another important factor in nonverbal communication. This genuinely has to do with people's personal space and their comfort levels. Most people want you to stay outside of their “personal bubble.” Most are comfortable standing in conversation with somebody they don't know when that person is a foot or more away from them. Obviously, the people that we care about can be closer to us without making us uncomfortable. This goes for family members, people you are in relationships with, and close friends.
 


 
Taking notice to not only other people's personal space but your own is important. Some people that would like to victimize you will try and get in close. They realize that touching somebody makes a connection. They will Honan on their ability to come into close contact with you and then take advantage of it. So making sure that you stand a reasonable distance away from people will stop this behavior from occurring. In addition, if somebody is a bit touchy-feely, there is nothing wrong with telling them that it makes you uncomfortable. Letting them know that it is not okay to be in your personal space can save you from harm in the future.
 


 
In a business atmosphere, you want to make sure that you are not overly far away from someone. If you are very far away during a conversation and it may seem as if you are disinterested. It is easier to get distracted while somebody is talking if you're not near to them. Knowing the appropriate distance four conversations are important for most people. It's really can help you to communicate more effectively.
 


 
The last area to look at and nonverbal communication is psychological changes. These can be quite hard to notice, but with practice it can become easier. This type of communication is related to our emotions. When we use the word psychological changes, we are talking about noticing if somebody starts to sweat or their face turns red from embarrassment. These are surefire ways to tell that somebody is feeling uncomfortable or uneasy about their current situation.
 
 


 
If you are dealing with a friend that gets teary-eyed while you're talking, you probably need to change your tactics to make them feel more comfortable. Putting somebody at ease when they are feeling nervous can truly help to build your rapport with them. Of course, you want to be careful when dealing with people that you don't know very well. They can pick up on your psychological changes and, in turn, use them against you.
 


 
 
 


 
Communication Skills
 


 
It is possible that after reading this you have found that your nonverbal communication skills are lacking. There are absolutely different activities that you can do to help him prove what you are saying to others. Taking the time to spend a few minutes a day working on your nonverbal communication can lead to a more successful life. This is because people will understand how you're truly feeling and thinking as you tried to express yourself to them.
 


 
You find the taking a few minutes out of your day to think about your facial expressions can work in your favor. Some people have a very hard time controlling their expression and this can make others uncomfortable when they are not interested or object to the things that are being said. Being aware of the look on your face can help set people at ease. In addition, it will help them trust you more and listen to the things that you have to say.
 


 
Another thing that can help you to improve your nonverbal communication is to pay attention to how you act. When you are standing in a room and talking with somebody, how close are you standing to them? Giving them more or less space can help improve the communication between you. Remember to close is not good; however, too far away is also not good. There is a fun experiment that you can try where two people stand fairly far apart and two steps at a time come closer and closer together. When one person starts to feel uncomfortable, they raise their hand to tell the other to stop. This gives you a good look at what most people's personal space is.
 


 
As noted, working on your tone and inflection can also improve your communication. Alongside of this is eye contact. Many people struggle with the right amount of eye contact and it can make you seem shifty. Practicing these things together can improve overall communication skills. This goes for both verbal and nonverbal skills.
 


 
People who effectively communicate verbally and non-verbally tend to have higher levels of self-esteem. This is because they truly feel understood. The people around them can listen to them talk and gain true insight from them. This is great for businesses and personal lives. Taking the time to work on your communication skills can absolutely help to improve your life overall.
 


 
Opening up your stance and relaxing a bit can help improve the confidence that you have in yourself. It can make talking with others much easier. An open stance will naturally make you more relaxed and approachable. You won't be as afraid to talk to those people that are coming up to you as they will also be relaxed because of your stance.
 
 


 
When people are coming up to you and talking, it's going to encourage you to talk back. Being aware of how you look and what you are saying well, naturally make you feel more confident. Taking notice to small twitches that might show nervousness and correcting them will also make you more confident. Self-esteem can be built quite easily, and your communication skills will play a major role in it. When you decide to start working on yourself and trying to like yourself more, focusing on your verbal and nonverbal communication will certainly help you along the way.
 


 
Some of you folks may be exceptionally confident when talking to an individual person or small crowds. However, when you get in front of a large crowd as it can be increasingly more intimidating. Training yourself to be confident and have great self-esteem can be difficult in a situation where there are thousands of people listening to you. Remembering that your body language speaks just as loud as your words will help you when put in these situations. When you are able to relate to the thousands of people looking at you and they are able to relate to you, it will truly help build you up.
 


 
On the other side of that, many people are great at talking to a group of people, but on an individual level they struggle. Talking one-on-one or with a very small group of people can be emotionally intimidating. It can make someone feel as if they have to be more vulnerable than they want to be. This goes along with the eyes being the window to the soul. We tend to be in closer proximity when working with only one person or a small group of people. They will be able to more easily see what's going on with you while you talk.
 
 


 
Most people have at least one person they are comfortable talking with. It is a great practice to spend time with that person and see how you react while in a one-on-one situation. Paying special attention to the tone of your voice, your body language, your eyes, and your facial expressions can lead you to more confidence when dealing with people you are not so comfortable with. Practicing talking to small groups or two people that are not necessarily your best friends is the best course of action and learning how to be confident in these situations. As with all things, practice truly does make perfect.
 


 
There is a ton of different activities that can be used on an individual or group basis to help with communication. Many companies throughout the world use them frequently to ensure that their team understands how well they communicate with each other. Finding these different activities is exceptionally simple. If you are looking for ways for your team to build better communication, I know that there are many resources out there that can help you.
 


 













 
Chapter 9: Deception
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
This type of dark psychology shares some similarities to manipulation in the sense that a lot of deceptions are disseminated to achieve the desirable. 
 


 
What is Deception?
   
 


 
How can deception be defined? Deception, alongside subterfuge, mystification, feign, deceit and beguilement, is an art employed by an agent to spread beliefs in the subject which are untrue, or truths coated with lies. Deception involves numerous things, for example, dissimulation, sleight of mind, suppression, cover-up, propaganda, etc. The agents win the favor of the subjects, they trust him and are unsuspecting of his propensity to be dubious. He is able to control the subject's mind having won their confidence and trust. The subjects have no doubts about the agent's words, in fact, the subjects trust the agent completely and possibly plan their affairs based on the agent's statements.    
 


 
The deception practiced by the agent can have grave consequential effects if discovered by the subjects. How? The subjects will not be disposed to hearing his words, neither will they accept them anymore, no wonder the agent must be skilled at the deception technique. He must create an escape route to cover up if things boomerang and still retain the trust his subjects have in him.  
 


 
Deception breaks the laws that govern relationships and it has been known to affect negatively the hopes that come with relationships. Deception does occur every now and then and this could result in feelings of doubt as well as disloyalty among the two people who are in the relationship. Nearly everyone desires to have an honest discussion with their partner; if they find out that their partner has however been dishonest, they, in turn, need to find out how to make use of confusion and distraction so as to get the dependable and honest information that they are in need of. Trust, on the other hand, would be lost in the relationship, making it hard to restore the relationship to its former glory.  
 


 
The individual on the receiving end of both dishonesty and betrayal would always wonder about the things their partner was telling them, thinking about whether the story was true or false. As a result of this new doubt, most relationships will be brought to an end once the agent realizes their partner's dishonesty.  
 


 
Types of Deception
   
 


 
Deception is a type of communication-based on omissions and falsehood so as to convince the subject of the world that best fits the agent. Seeing that there is a need for communication to take place, there will likewise be various kinds of deception that could take place. As per the Interpersonal Deception Theory, there are 5 different sorts of deception. A few of these have been revealed in other types of mind control, showing there can be some similarities.   
 


 
The 5 major types of deception include:   
 


 
1. Lies:
 This occurs when the agent manufactures information or provides information that is not similar to the truth. They will give this information to the unsuspecting individual as the truth and the individual will then see this lie to be fact indeed. However, this can be unsafe as the person being given this false information would have no idea about the falsehood; most likely, if the subject understood that they were being given information that was not true, they would not be on talking terms with the agent and no deception would have occurred;  
 


 
2. Equivocations:
 This is the point at which the agent will make statements that are differing, unclear, or not direct, such that the subject becomes confused and does not understand what is going on. Also, it can help the agent to preserve their reputation, saving face if the subject later returns to blame them for the falsehood;   
 


 
3. Concealments:
 It is the most frequently used form of deception. It refers to when the agent leaves out information that is related or critical to the situation on purpose, or they display any such behavior that would cover up information that is of importance to the subject for that exact situation. The agent won't have lied straightforwardly to the subject, they will, however, have ensured that the vital information required never gets to the subject;  
 


 
4. Exaggeration:
 Exaggeration occurs when the agent emphasizes too much on a fact or stretch the truth just a little so as to twist the story to suit them. Although the agent may not directly be lying to the subject, they will manipulate the situation such that it appears as though it is a bigger deal than it actually is, or they may twist the truth to make the subject do whatever they need them to do;  
 


 
5. Understatements:
 This is the inverse of the exaggeration tool in the sense that the agent will present part of the fact as less important, telling the subject that an event is less of a deal than it actually is when in it really could be what decides whether the subject gets the opportunity to graduate or gets a huge promotion. As such, the agent will be able to return to the subject saying they had no idea how huge a deal their omission was, they get to keep their reputation leaving the subject to look petty if they protest.  
 


 
The above are only some of the forms of deception that there are. To reach their final goal, the agent of deception will make use of any means that is available to them, the same as what happens in other types of mind control. These methods mentioned are however not limiting, as the agent would use any means to get to their goal.  
 


 
The agent of deception (who is going to be good at what he does) can be dangerous since the subject will be unable to know what is the truth or lie.   
 


 
Reasons for Deception
  
 


 
It has been confirmed by researchers that there are 3 major reasons for deceptions found in intimate relationships. These consist of motives focused on the partner, motives focused on self-focused, and motives focused on a relationship.   
 


 
In the case of the partner-focused motives, the agent will use deception to keep their partner from harm. Also, they could make use of falsehood to save their partner's relationship with an outsider, thereby protecting the subject from worry, or keep the subject's confidence intact. This reason for deception is often seen to be of benefit to the relationship and socially respectful.   
 


 
In comparison with some of the other reasons for deception, this one is not as bad. If the agent finds out about something terrible that the subject's closest friend said about them, the agent may remain quiet about it. Although this is a type of deception, it not only saves the subject's friendship but also keeps the subject from feeling terrible for themselves. This is the type of deception that is often found in most relationships and also if found out, might not cause a lot of damage. To protect their partner, a larger percentage of couples would use this form of deception to protect their partner.  
 


 
The self-focused motive for deception is not thought to be as noble as the partner-focused motive for deception, and as such, is not as acceptable as the other methods. Rather than stressing over the subject and how they are doing, the agent is going to simply consider how they are doing, and about their very own self-image. Here, the agent makes use of deception so as to protect the agent from criticism, shame or anger. Using this form of deception in a relationship is typically seen to be a very serious issue and offense than in the case of partner-focused deception. This is because the agent chooses to act in a manner that is self-centered instead of working to protect their relationship or their partner.  
 


 
Lastly, the relationship-focused motive of deception. The agent makes use of this form of deception to prevent any harm coming to the relationship basically by staying away from deception, relational disturbance and quarrel. This type of deception will be either help or harm the relationship depending on the circumstances. This form of deception could be harmful because it makes things rather complex. For instance, if you do not reveal just how you feel about dinner to prevent a quarrel, this might just help the relationship. Then again, if you keep to yourself the fact that you took part in an extra-marital relationship, the situation is only going to become more complex.  
 


 
No matter the motive of deception in the relationship, deception is not advised. The agent is holding back details that may be vital to the subject; when the subject discovers it, distrust in the agent will set in and they are left to ponder what other details the agent is keeping from them. The subject would, however, not be too worried for the reason behind the deception, they will simply be vexed that they have not been told some things, causing a split in the relationship. Usually, it is best to stick with truthfulness in the relationship and not encircle yourself with individuals who don't put deception into practice in your social circle.  
 


 
Detecting Deception
   
 


 
An individual that has an interest in preventing deception to avoid the mind games that come with it should learn how to detect deception when it is occurring. It is not usually easy to know when deception is going on as there are really no pointers to rely on; except the agent makes a mistake and either tells an obvious lie or says something that the subject knows to be false. While it might be difficult for the agent to mislead the subject for a long period of time, it is something that will usually happen regularly between individuals who know one another.   
 


 
Deception can place a heavy weight on the cognitive thinking of the agent because they will need to find a way to bring to remembrance all the conversations they have had with the subject on the situation, so the story stays believable and dependable. Any mistake will bring the subject to the realization they are being deceived. The stress involved in keeping the story believable is much, and as such, the agent is very much likely to spill out details that will give the subject a clue that they are being deceived either through nonverbal or verbal signs.   
 


 
It is believed by researchers that detecting deception is a process that is cognitive, fluid, and also complicated and which will regularly differ based on the message that is being passed across. As indicated by the Interpersonal Deception Theory, deception is an iterative and dynamic process of influence between the agent, who attempts to manipulate the information and how they need it with the goal that it varies from the truth, and the subject, who will at that point try to know if the message is true or false. The agent's activities will be in relation to the actions that the subject makes after they get the information. All through this trade, the agent will uncover the nonverbal and verbal information that will signal the subject into the deceit. Eventually, the subject might have the capacity to tell that the agent has been lying to them.     
 


 
It is not all the time that the subject will be able to know the agent is deceiving them. Aldert Vrij, a notable deception scholar, said that there are no specific nonverbal behaviors related to deception. There are, however, some nonverbal behaviors that can be related to the act of deception. These signs can also be displayed when other behaviors are present, making it hard to know whether the agent is being deceptive, except they tell a complete lie.  
 


 
Mark Frank, another scholar of deception, suggests another idea of deception that contains how it very well may be detected at the subject's cognitive level. When deception takes place, an agent requires a cognizant behavior that is intentional. Hence, being attentive to words and focusing on the nonverbal behavior that is going on being both basic when trying to decide whether or not you are being deceived. If somebody asks a question and the agent isn't happy to answer it straightforwardly, rather makes use of some type of disturbance, with a poor logical structure, repeats words, and uses less time answering that exact question, they are most definitely lying.   
 


 
Essentially, there are only a few signs that can be used to try and find out when deception is taking place. There are a couple of nonverbal signs that may be when an agent is being deceptive; they may, however, have some other issue, for example, anxiety or shyness.   
 


 
Primary Components of Deception
   
 


 
Most times, the subject won't realize that these components have taken place except if the agent has told an obvious lie or been caught being deceptive. These are parts that will be later known if the agent is making use of the deception process rightly. The 3 primary parts of deception are camouflage, disguise, and simulation.  
 


 
Camouflage   
 


 
The major component of deception is camouflage. It is the point at which the agent is attempting to hide the truth in such a way that the subject is unaware of the fact they are missing. Usually, this method is used when the agent gives information that is only partly true. Until these facts are uncovered one way or the other, the subject will not know that camouflaging has taken place. The agent will be so talented in hiding facts, with the goal that it is not easy for the subject to realize the deception has taken place by chance.  
 


 
Disguise   
 


 
This is yet is another component which can be found in the process of deception. In this case, the agent tries to pass across the idea that they are something or another person. This occurs in such instances when the agent holds back details about themselves, for example, their genuine name, what they do for a living, the people they have been with, and what they do when they go out. This is more than simply changing the clothing that a person wears in a play or film; when the disguise is employed in the process of deception, the agent is attempting to deceive the agent by changing their entire personality and appearing as somebody else.  
 


 
There are quite a few models that can show the use of disguise in the deception process. The first is in relation to the agent masking themselves, often as someone else, with the goal that they are not recognized. The agent may do this so as to be accepted into a group of individuals that do not like him, change their persona to make somebody like them, or for the purpose of achieving their selfish interests. Now and again, the word disguise can simply be referring to the agent masking the real nature of a proposal with expectations of hiding an impact that is not agreeable with that proposal. Most times this type of disguise is found in propaganda or political spin.   
 


 
Disguise can be harmful for the reason that it is concealing the genuine nature of what is happening. When important details are held back from the subject, it clouds their thinking since they don't have the correct information to settle on logical decisions. While the subject may imagine that they are settling on logical decisions all on their own, the agent has, however, removed important information that may change the subject's decision.   
 


 
Simulation   
 


 
This is the third component of deception. Simulation involves presenting false information to the subject. Three methods that can be used in simulation include; mimicry, fabrication, and distraction.  
 


 
In mimicry, otherwise defined as the copying of another model, the agent will without thinking be giving a picture of something that is like themselves. They may have a plan that is like another person's and rather than giving credit to the other person, they will say that the plan is all their doing. This type of simulation can happen regularly through sound-related, visual, and other methods.   
 


 
Fabrication is yet another means of deception. Here, the agent takes something found in reality and changes it until it becomes different. They may tell a tale that did not take place or add to a true story to make it better or worse. While the heart of the story might be true, agreed they got a poor score on a test, it will have some additional things put in, for example, the teacher gave them a poor score intentionally. While in reality, the agent got a poor score because they failed to read.  
 


 
Lastly, distraction is another type of simulation in deception. In this case, the agent makes an effort to get the subject to concentrate on other things, but not the truth; usually done by offering the subject with something that may be more tempting than the truth that has been hidden from them.  
 


 
For instance, if a cheating spouse thinks the wife is beginning to suspect, he may bring home a precious stone ring to distract her from the matter even for a short while. The problem with this method is that it is not usually long-lasting and as such, the agent has to look for a new way to trick the subject if they are to keep the process going.
 


 











 




 
Chapter 10: How to Spot Manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
In our last chapter we are going to look over how to tell if somebody is trying to take advantage of you. In addition, we are going to try and make it easier for you to spot manipulation. When you have a good idea of what is going on with the people around you and, we mean truly knowing what they're planning, it can help to keep you safer in a lot of situations. We will look over how to be exceptionally mindful in what you do on a daily basis and ways that you can build your self-esteem. When you are trying to understand human behavior, it's important to understand yourself. Looking at your verbal and nonverbal skills can allow you better insight as to what other people are thinking because you won't understand how their bodies work as compared to your own.
 


 
Trying to figure out when somebody is taking advantage of you can be difficult. There are absolutely signs that you can watch out for. In fact, there are a lot of different great articles surrounding the thoughts of if somebody is or is not trying to take advantage of you. With the ability to see when somebody's intentions are less than pure, you will keep yourself better protected and in turn, lead a happier life. It can be very frustrating when you're uncertain of someone's intentions and even worse when you find out they were simply around to take advantage of you.
 


 
People are pretty crafty, and they will use your emotions against you. Some people love to feign confusion. You may have made it very clear what your expectations are, and they simply pretend that they don't understand. If it is somebody that you know fairly well it can be easy to see that they are trying to take advantage of you because you may know that they're quite smart and usually catch on to things quickly. However, if you're dealing with somebody you don't know very well you may just assume that they're not very intelligent and need a lot of direction to get something done. Their active confusion can be frustrating and leave you dealing with whatever it was you asked of them.
 


 
In a relationship, feigning confusion can be horribly detrimental. Let's say that you know your girlfriend or boyfriend is cheating on you, but they simply play dumb. You may not have exact proof and in their ability to act confused or non-understanding of what you are saying can leave you two sticking with a detrimental situation. Pay close attention to the person you are dealing with so that you can have a good understanding of whether or not they actually have the capacity to get what you are saying.
 


 
Some also really like to play the victim. You've probably met a person or two in your life that does this. Everything that is going on with them is simply terrible. They do this so that they can have your attention and get you to do what they want. Sympathy is a powerful feeling. If somebody is working through a hardship, naturally, good people want to help them. Somebody with malicious intent will use this to their advantage. Knowing that you are a good person or realizing that you help people around you can encourage them to play the part of the victim to gain your trust and sympathy.
 


 
People that play the victim tend to do it in their everyday lives. Each person that they come into contact with them have another sob story to make them feel bad. If you are around somebody that has a generally negative attitude, this could be because they like to play the victim. Some people do it unconsciously, but others do it to get you under their thumb. Be careful when you're handing out sympathy and empathy for those around you and make sure that they deserve it.
 


 
In today's world, we hear a lot about shaming. This can be done in a variety of ways and it is insanely detrimental. It can start out with little digs about the way you look, feel, or, it may be that you did not do something up to the standard of the person speaking to you. In the real world, they are simply doing this to get you under their thumb. When people give us critiques, it can be difficult to understand that they may not be true.
 


 
Human beings, naturally, take things to Heart. Shame is a very powerful feeling that can tear you down quickly. Once you start feeling ashamed of yourself on one way or another, it is difficult to pull yourself out of it. So, recognizing when somebody is simply trying to shame you into submission is important for your mental health.
 


 
Using shame does not necessarily always making digs. If you have met a very sarcastic person, they could be using their sarcasm to make you feel ashamed. This type of behavior is unacceptable, and it should be acknowledged from the very beginning. There is a time and a place for sarcasm but when it is making you feel terrible about yourself, you need to put a stop to it right away. Otherwise, you may be given control of yourself and your life to somebody else.
 


 
 
 


 
Divert Attention
 


 
When people are trying to take advantage of you, they may use diversion techniques. By throwing you off of a certain thought or path, they can easily change the subject and get the eyes off of them. Being aware and staying on track of what you were saying is important. This goes hand-in-hand with knowing what you're going to say and spending the time to think before you speak. With clear, concise thoughts you won't have to worry about people trying to divert your attention away from them.
 


 
When people try to divert attention often, they are trying to pass the blame on to somebody else. This is a very dangerous game and can end up pitting you against a friend, co-worker, or family member. So, as noted, it's extremely important to have your thoughts collected before entering into any sort of serious conversation. It truly can help to ensure that you do not get taken advantage of by those that are skilled and diversion techniques.
 


 
Some people will do their very best to make you feel guilty in order to be able to take advantage of you. This commonly happens with people that know you better than others. When those around you are aware of the fact that you strive to be a good person, it can, absolutely, be used against you. There is nothing wrong with wanting to be a good person, but it does tend to make people feel more guilty when they've done something wrong.
 
 


 
Everyone has moments in time where they're not the best person, and that's okay. Accepting the fact that everyone makes mistakes can help to ensure that those around you cannot use guilt to control you. Sure, most of us want to make good decisions and do the right thing by not only ourselves but those that are around us. Knowing that this is not always the case and we all have screw-ups is very helpful. Guilt is a common denominator and taking control over somebody or using them to your advantage.
 


 
 
 


 
Denial
 


 
Denial is another component that people frequently used to take advantage of others. If you don't have hard evidence against somebody what is to stop them from simply saying no, I didn't do that. It then comes down to your word against theirs. If somebody is vehemently denying what you are saying eventually you start to believe it. You may question the information and where you got it. This can cause distrust among those that you trust the most.
 


 
Denial is dangerous, especially when you trust your sources.
 
 Hearsay is a difficult thing to prove, however, it can be very detrimental to someone's psyche. As you start to doubt whether or not your accusations are true, you may also start to doubt other things in your life. This allows control to the person that is making all of the denials. They can pray for this to try and bend you to their well. In addition, once they have made you accept the fact that their denial is true, they might start looking for favors.
 


 
Neuro-linguistic programming skills can really help in this department. Most people that are quick to deny something have some facial movements or body movements to give them away. When you start to study these techniques, it can be much simpler to figure out who is riding the denial train. When you understand that somebody is simply denying the accusations to save face or keep themself out of trouble, it becomes easier to figure it out and understand that is what's going on.
 


 
Liars are all around us. From the time we are little there are lies in our lives. Ones that we have told and ones that others have told us. Liars are, typically, trying to take advantage of you. Sometimes the lie that is told is quite harmless and can be brushed off. Other times, they are major lies that can ruin lives.
 


 
We talked a bit about lying earlier and when it comes down to it every person in the world tells a lie on occasion. When we tell a lie with good intent, it doesn't make it much better than align with mal intent, but it is more understandable. Sometimes it is simply easier to tell a white lie than it is to hurt somebody's feelings or cause turmoil for somebody that you care about.
 


 
Then there are the other types of Lies, the big ones. These can affect not only your daily life and relationships but also your job. When people are telling a lot late and lie, it can be very difficult to deal with. Emotions may become heightened, especially, if you know for a fact that they are lying. This can make you act out in a way that you normally would not. Obviously, if you're at work and you have a major meltdown because somebody thought you trusted is telling a major lie, it's going to lead to trouble. Spotting Liars can be difficult, so be careful who you decide to put your full trust into.
 


 
The daily liar is exceptionally dangerous. They make small embellishments and I have a story for everything. You may learn to trust this person very easily as it seems they are quite open and honest. Realistically, people that talk too much about themselves or what they have done in their life should be looked at a bit skeptically. It takes time to open up and so those that just continuously talk are likely lying to you in one way or another.
 


 
People that rely on lying to get through their daily lives become very good at it. They are completely comfortable with telling these mistruths to just about anyone. It can be hard to pick out a liar, but with practice and attention to detail it can become easier. Know that the liar is always trying to prey on somebody even if it is for a simple joke or to make themselves feel better.
 
 


 
Ever come into contact with someone that simply blows you off? They make plans, but then never get back to you or you know they've read a message and are simply not responding. These people are absolutely trying to take advantage of you. Don't get us wrong, some people just get busy and don't have the time to respond. However, it continues you can be fairly sure that they are playing some sort of game.
 


 
This type of behavior is commonly referred to as selective inattention. Some days, you may find that the person you are dealing with his right there helping you with everything you need. Then for the next two days, you simply can't get ahold of them. They become very distant and closed off, even when you need help. Oftentimes, this type of behavior is thought out.
 


 
Planned selective inattention can give power and control to the person that is ignoring you. They understand that people get frustrated when they're being ignored. When someone is being ignored, they typically work harder to get attention. This makes the person ignoring you hold the power. You are striving for their attention and they are simply letting you do it.
 


 
 
 


 
Seduction
 


 
Another way that people try to take advantage of others is with seduction. Let's face it, we all want to be accepted in love. Some people will use charm and flattery to get you on their side of the fence. They make you feel truly special but then end up simply getting what they want. They honestly don't care about you one way or the other.
 


 
Recognizing when somebody is trying to seduce you can be very difficult. Obviously, if you are in a relationship and somebody is hitting on you, it may be easier to blow off. Other times, when you're single and lonely, you are leaving yourself completely open to being taken advantage of. This can happen in your dating life, work life, or even in your everyday life.
 


 
Seduction seriously plays with your emotions. Your mental stability is being challenged when you allow somebody to seduce you. Taking the time to truly get to know someone before you fall for their witty comments and compliments is crucial and keeping yourself protected against being taken advantage of.
 


 
You can ward off this kind of behavior by setting clear ground rules from the beginning. It doesn't matter if you are talking with a future lover or your boss. When people understand the ground that you keep it makes them less apt to try and take advantage of you and your emotions. Those that take advantage of your emotions are the worst, as it can be very difficult to separate your rational thinking from your emotional thinking.
 


 
When you practice NLP and start to really get into the inner workings of it, it can definitely keep you better protected from these emotional abusers. You will make the choice of whether or not somebody has the ability to affect you. Not only that, but you will also have the ability to make the choice of what that affect is going to be. Having better control over yourself and your emotions is always going to help you being better protected against those who would like to play on them.
 
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulation
 


 
Manipulation is another huge issue in being taken advantage of. It is seriously, its own Monster. Learning when somebody is trying to manipulate you into doing something you wouldn't normally do is important. It may be something small and insignificant; however, it's surprising how huge manipulation can become. You may find that you are all about following the rules and all of a sudden somebody has talked you into breaking a lot. Obviously, this could land you with some very serious repercussions.
 


 
The ability to spot manipulation is something that can be practiced. Like all skills you'll need to hone it. Being manipulated doesn't feel good, especially once you realize that it has happened. If you're lucky, you'll notice that somebody is trying to manipulate you before you start doing things outside of your nature. At one point or another most people are able to pinpoint a spot in their life that they were manipulated. Typically, the feelings surrounding that don't feel very good. No one likes to be manipulated, so understanding when it's happening is critical.
 
 


 
So, how do we know when we're being manipulated? The signs for manipulation are exactly the signs of being taken advantage of. These two things are quite synonymous. There are manipulators all over the world, some of them are easy to spot and others are masters of the craft. The only true way to know if you're being manipulated is to take the time in getting to know someone. Studying them and understanding what their movements, tone of voice tone, words, and other actions actually mean.
 


 
Having the ability to see these things is not an ability that comes naturally or easily to everyone. As noted, studying the techniques of neuro-linguistic programming and understanding some about Dark Psychology and the Dark Triad can help you be better armed against those that will take advantage of you. It will take time and possibly a great amount of effort, but eventually you'll start to notice more and more about what is going on around you. This will give you the armor you need to ensure that you are the one in control of your life and no other people.
 


 
 
 


 
The Art of Mindfulness
 


 
A great way to add to your arsenal of maintaining control of yourself and not allowing others to take advantage or manipulate you is to practice the art of mindfulness. Mindfulness is something that we can practice every single day. There are truly some very simple exercises that can help you become more aware of what is going on around you and inside of you. Being mindful can help keep you well protected against those who wish to do you harm or have you done their bidding.
 


 
It is understandable that not everybody has a long period of time in a day to sit and meditate. You don't have to have a lot of time to become more mindful. It can truly only take a few minutes per day and you'll be surprised by the results. You will notice a lot more of what is happening around you and this is, obviously, advantageous to you and your overall well-being.
 


 
One exceptionally simple exercise that you can do pretty much at any point throughout your day is breathing mindfully. This means that you will change your focus from whatever it is that is in front of you and simply focus on breathing in and breathing out. Notice how it feels, the sound it makes to you, and the speed at which it is happening. The more mindful you are of your breathing, the more you'll be able to focus on other things around you with continued practice.
 


 
Mindful listening is also a very easy exercise that can help to improve your senses. When you have a few minutes, you can simply close your eyes and take in, literally, every noise around you. Whether you are in the office or out for a walk in the woods, the Sounds will change dramatically. Home in on each one individually. Noticed what the sound is. The tone of it, how it makes you feel, and how it interacts with the other sounds in the room. This practice can be done for 30 seconds or even longer. Finding the time to do it should be barely an inconvenience.
 
 


 
Mindful observation is a great tool to have in your kit. This is the one that is going to allow you to notice the behaviors of the people around you. By sitting back and observing what is going on without participating in it, it is surprising how many different things you will notice. We're not only talking about observing the people around you but also the surrounding itself.
 


 
Let's say you're sitting in a board meeting and you notice that the person in the corner is a little more agitated than everyone else. By looking around the room you may notice that the air is circulating to every place except for that corner. It is likely, the person is feeling irritated because they're overheated. This may not be something that a person would notice without practicing mindful observation.
 


 
Mindful observation is also excellent in pretty much every aspect of your life. This really does go with the belief system behind neuro-linguistic programming. It is simply about taking notice to everything that is going on around you but only one piece at a time. I’ve noticed that if you using the simple things you can figure out a lot of the big things. It takes time to become attuned and aware of everything that is going around you. Here again, you need to understand that practice makes perfect. The more time you give yourself to practice this technique, the easier it will become to notice what is really happening.
 


 
 
 


 
Self-Esteem
 


 
Building your self-confidence or self-esteem is another great way to ensure that people will not take advantage of you. When you are sure of yourself you don't have to worry about your beliefs being bent by a clever talk. It also makes it clearer when people are telling you lies or trying to deceive you. Having self-confidence can be very difficult in the world we live in today.
 


 
Oftentimes, we get torn down by everyone around us. This tactic can be very harmful, especially when used with Mal intent. When you do have good self-esteem, you won't have to worry about the harmful effects of detrimental talk.
 


 
There are quite a few ways that you can help build your confidence. Self-esteem building is something that should happen on a daily basis. Just like becoming more aware, it only takes a few minutes every day. Let's take a look at a few things you can do to help boost your confidence and self-esteem with just a few minutes of practice every day.
 


 
Affirmations or mantras are an excellent way to boost your self-esteem. By telling yourself repeatedly that you are worthy of love or that You have beautiful skin can really help. When we repeatedly tell ourselves the same thing our mind starts to accept them more easily. So, instead of tearing yourself apart, you can start building yourself up. If you find that you have a hard time repeating something to yourself, you can make a postcard and stick it to your mirror. This will allow you to see it every time you go to the mirror and you will unconsciously read it.
 


 
Another thing you can do to help build your self-esteem is to visualize yourself just exactly as you want you to be. This is going to take a bit more time and can be difficult for some people. However, when you start to see yourself as the superhero reaching all of your goals in the most beautiful of fashions, it can be truly helpful. Finding the negative aspects about ourselves as easy as compared to finding the positive ones. Thinking about yourself as your very best version can help you change the habit of picking yourself apart.
 
 


 
Along with this thought, you should question the critic that lives inside of you. Surely you have heard the phrase, “you are your own worst enemy.” This is because it's true. We tend to critique ourselves much harder than those around us. Taking the time to think about why you truly are feeling that way about yourself is important. There are a variety of therapies that revolve around getting you to understand that you are simply being too hard on yourself.
 


 
A lot of times when people have low self-esteem or low confidence because they're not truly taken care of themselves. We don't simply mean going to the gym and eating healthy. These two things do play a part and overall well-being, but your mental health is insanely important. If you are suffering from a lack of confidence in taking care of your brain might be exactly the thing that you need. Spending time to focus on the positives of life and becoming more mindful will lead to mental clarity and can oftentimes help build a person's confidence.
 


 
Finding the ability to set boundaries can also be very helpful in building confidence. It's understandable that saying no can be difficult; however, it is necessary. Letting people know where your lines in the sand are will stop them from easily taking advantage of you. Being assertive is not simple for all people. Some of us are simply not wired that way. There are many tactics and which you can help yourself to become more assertive. In fact, you can even take classes on this. Once you start to set boundaries, the people around you will have more respect for you. In turn, you will find that you have more respect for yourself.
 


 
Changing your thought pattern about where you stand in society is also a good way to improve self-esteem. If you spend time thinking that you are less than others it can be truly mentally painful. Changing your thought patterns seeing yourself as an equal can help improve not only your mood but also your self-esteem.
 


 
Having the realization that no one is any better than anyone else is an epiphany that everyone needs to have. Sure, someone might do something better than you, but certainly there is something that you do better than them. Understanding that all things will balance is very important and making sure that you have excellent confidence and self-esteem.
 


 
Many self-esteem and confidence issues come from fear. Something you can do to help improve your self-esteem and your level of confidence is to face at least one fear every single day. Removing yourself from your comfort zone will make it easier when a new fear pops up. You won't be afraid to stand up and give your opinion in that meeting or the thought of leaving your house becomes less and less of a big deal. It may be a bit shocking at first and difficult to face your fears; however, once you start doing it you will feel the liberation that it brings. True Freedom can be found when learning how to face your fears.
 


 
Understanding human behavior can be very complicated. We are all wired a bit differently, so pinpointing one aspect of somebody against another can be very difficult. When we start to understand ourselves better, we can also understand others better. All of this comes down to verbal and nonverbal communication. The way that we deal with each other truly shows the intentions that we have.
 


 
As noted, nonverbal communication is one of the most important things that you can learn. What people are doing truly will show you how they feel, what they are thinking, and possibly what their intentions are. When you can understand the nonverbal cues that someone is giving to, you will be better protected towards ill-natured intent. It takes a lot of practice and mindfulness to be able to truly understand nonverbal communication. Focusing on one aspect at a time will allow you to put it all together.
 


 
There are many different areas of nonverbal communication and studying them singularly will help immensely. Taking the time to learn about body language, movement, tone of voice, posture, and other pieces of nonverbal communication will take time. Each one of them is equally as important as the other. When you start to focus on yourself and the way you communicate to a non-verbally way, it will definitely be easier to understand what others are trying to actually say.
 


 
Not falling for the words that come out of somebody's mouth hook, line, and sinker is absolutely advantageous. When you can pay attention to all of the aspects of what is going on with them it will be much more difficult for them to pull the wool over your eyes. Nonverbal communication is insanely important to understand, and each person should spend some time in their lives learning about it.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Throughout this book, we have covered many different topics regarding manipulation and what they are or could look like and how to avoid them. But the question of why people manipulate others is still being answered today, with interesting answers. To begin this subject, let's look at antiquity. People have been manipulating each other, according to historical records and the earliest bibliography, since the dawn of humans. From as far back as the first Roman emperors, people have been using tricks to play on simple innate human emotions to get what they want from others. By other promising false things, or playing on primal human fears, people have attained a certain great power, via using these simple psychological tricks to their advantage. 
 


 
A lot more is going on when two people meet for the first time than most people pick up on. Many people are so preoccupied with themselves and other thoughts that they would never notice the subtle cues that people are continually giving off, broadcasting their feelings and thoughts. When you know the tricks of the trade when it comes to picking up nonverbal communication and body language, you will be able to read a great deal about people before they even open their mouths to introduce themselves. When you can read the room and size people up, you already have an advantage over anyone else who might be trying to vie for that person’s affection, political support, or sales transaction. It’s all about taking the time it takes to learn and practice in the real world once you’ve decided to undertake the art of dark psychology. It’s impossible to become comfortable with these techniques without observation and practice. You will find that the more confident you are with your strategies, the more comfortable and more natural they will happen, leaving your targets entirely in the dark about what’s going on under the surface.   
 


 













 
BOOK 5
 


 
Persuasion and Dark Psychology
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
INTRODUCTION
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
What does psychology mean? The excellent minds that have existed before us, psychology as the science of the soul can be defined as having its start and its end with the mind. It is not just science, however, because it contains elements that can be aware or unconscious. It also involves patterns of behavior.  Many have discovered the minds of the human being to be very puzzling and intriguing and, therefore, they have taken a career in the areas of psychology, scientific science as well as philosophy, in order to debunk this enigma that is the human mind. They are listening and helping us navigate through problems like depression or anxiety. The darkness in us is suppressed with their assistance, and we can live our life.
 


 
In neuropsychology, a branch of psychology which deals with the way the brain is related to conduct and feelings focused on knowing the human mind. How does the brain collect data? How is this data processed? How do you lastly store that data? These issues relate to neuropsychology.
 


 
Understanding how the mind functions go beyond visiting a shrink, who provides guidance and some pills or the fundamental knowledge of the brain. It is much deeper. It is much deeper. In us all, it is nice and bad. According to Colin McGinn, evil people generally get enjoyment from pain and vice versa. We people have all these emotions, fear, happiness, joy, pain, sadness and sometimes, in the process, we can harm others if we cannot regulate our feelings. 
 


 
Now, what is psychology of darkness? Dark psychology is the research we use to hurt others around us intentionally and intentionally. Dark psychology is about mind control and manipulation. It is said that we all have that' darkness within' as human beings. Man is also said to have intrinsic evil or sin from Christian scriptures. Sometimes, the darkness in us makes us do something unexpected. Take a person's example, you knew they were good, then they suddenly do the unexpected one day and then we do not want to associate with them anymore. 
 


 
Dark psychology is about control and manipulation of the mind. This art of manipulation and somehow influencing people to do your job begins with a kid shouting at an early age so that parents can come to their rescue. Every time the child wants something, it is repeated. Parents sometimes see that as harmless, that is, no parent wants to see their baby cry. Parents who do not prevent this conduct ensure that this manipulation remains later in the lives of the child. It's about dark psychology. Get into a person's mind and understand his or her behavioural patterns.
 


 
Having clarified this otherwise wide topic, let us now try to familiarize ourselves with the multiple impacts of dark psychology. Both the victim and the perpetrator feel the impacts of dark psychology. In order to understand the effects, we need to investigate certain aspects of dark psychology. People with certain personality features, which are seen as obscure, such as narcissism, psychopathy, and Machiavellianism, are likely to have problems in all aspects of their relations. 
 


 
They are more likely to commit a crime if all three characteristics are present in one individual. The three personality traits mentioned above have particular features.
 


 
For instance, a sense of rightfulness, feelings of superiority, profound envy for the achievement of others and exploitative behaviour. Psychopathy has a lack of guilt, a lack of empathy, a destructive impulsive behaviour, self-cantering and a lack of accountability. Machiavellian features are indicators of egoism, ruthlessness, and manipulation. These features are problem-specific individually but can be combined to cause problems with spelling. In the connection between an individual and others in particular. People who enter into contact with them pay a heavy emotional price if you have encountered an individual who is defined by these experiences; leave them for the sake of your health and well-being. If you experience that, on the other hand, you are looking for the psychical assistance you need to improve.
 


 
No matter how deeply rooted these problems are, you can improve your behaviour and experience by using the right form of therapy. The first step is to understand what the scenario is, acknowledge that you have an issue and seek assistance quickly. It makes us all emotionally and mentally drained to cope with individuals who have the characteristics I listed above. The impact can sometimes be physical and in extreme instances deadly. The nice neighbour whose terrible experience caused me to write this book lost everything on this trip physically. His home, his company, his finances, but his loss was much deeper and bigger. We had no connection with the perpetrator, but we were victims, too. Our losses were not as monumental as yours, but we also suffered losses. We lost our nice neighbour in the beginning. She didn't die, but she never recovered from the experience. We lost our capacity to trust strangers. Even our relationships seemed to require a further level of trust to flourish. The greatest effect of dark psychology on anybody is that it generates a powerful feeling of loss. We are losing our precious things, we lose relationships, we lose ourselves [I will clarify that in a little] and for those who are highly dissatisfied we lose their life. Taking all stuff into account, it is secure to say that the effect of this darkness is profound. When an individual display one of the dark personality traits, specialists say, the individual has a very elevated tendency to display the others. Generally, if bigger members of society have such features, it is secure to say that the rate of crime in this community will be considerably high.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER ONE: WHAT IS PERSUASION
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Persuasion is a theme of dark psychology that can be said to share quite a bit of similarity to manipulation. There are many reasons why we adopt persuasion into our everyday lives, but the main one would have to be to get people with different ideas on the same page. For instance, in a company, the persuasion method will be used to alter a person's attitude towards an item, concept, or a particular event that is taking place. Either written or spoken phrases will be used during the process to express the other person's thinking, emotions, or data. Another common instance you can use persuasion is to fulfill a private benefit. This would include either advocacy for trial when providing a pitch for sales or during an election campaign. Although none of these are deemed good or evil, they are still used to affect the listener to behave or believe somehow. 
 


 
One understanding of persuasion is that it utilizes one's private or positional resources to alter other people's attitudes or behaviors. There are also several distinct kinds of persuasion recognized; altering views or attitudes by appealing to reason and logic is known as systematic persuasion; the process of altering views and attitudes by appealing to feelings or practices is known as heuristic persuasion. Persuasion is a type of mind control that is constantly being used in society. You may attempt to convince them to believe the same way you do when you speak to someone about politics. You are persuaded to vote a certain way when you listen to a political campaign. There's a lot of persuasion going on when someone is attempting to sell you a fresh item. This form of mind control is so prevalent that most people don't even know it's happening at all to them. The problem will arise when someone takes the time to convince you to believe ideals and values that do not suit your own value system. There are many distinct types of persuasion available. Not all of them have a bad intention, but they will all work to get the subject to change their minds about something. When a political candidate arrives on television, they try to get the topic, or the voter, to vote on the ballot a certain way on Election Day. The company that submitted that advertisement is attempting to get the victim to buy that item when you see a commercial on television or online.
 


 
All of these are kinds of persuasion that are bent on attempting to modify the way they believe about the victim. To get the victim to modify their way of thinking. Dark persuasion has no moral motivation whatsoever. The motivation is rather amoral and sometimes largely immoral. If the beneficial conviction is understandable as assisting individuals to help themselves, dark persuasion can be seen as a mechanism by which individuals behave against their own self-interest. Sometimes, people reluctantly know that they may not make the best choice, but are keen to stop the continuous persuasion efforts. On other occasions, the best dark persuaders can make someone think they act wisely when they actually do just the opposite. 
 


 
So, what are the primary reasons for these dark persuaders? It depends on the type of person who persuades. Some people try to convince others to serve their own interests. Others do pure harm by the sole malicious intent. They may not profit from persuading anyone, but they do it anyhow, solely in order to bring pain to their victims. Others just appreciate the feeling of control provided by dark persuasion. 
 


 
The result of dark persuasion is also different from positive persuasion. Positive persuasion usually results in one of three scenarios: benefit of the persuaded, benefit for the persuader and the persuaded or mutual benefit for the persuaded individual and a third party. All these results have a positive result for the person to be convinced. Sometimes other people benefit, sometimes they don't. However, there is no situation where only the manipulator benefits. 
 


 
Dark persuasion has a very distinct set of results. The persuader always advantages either immediately or by his distorted need for control and impact. The persuaded individual is against their own self-interest and is not persuaded. Finally, not only do the most qualified dark persuaders' damage their victims, but they also damage others. Take a dark persuader who tells somebody to commit suicide so they can take advantage of an insurance policy. The persuader won financially, and the victim lost his life and hurt everyone who knew or cared for them.
 


 
Who are these individuals who often tend to use dark persuasion? The main characteristic of a dark persuader is either indifference or an inability to be concerned about the impact of persuasion on others. They are either completely narcissistic and regard their own requirements to be far more essential than others' requirements or are sociopathic and unable even to understand the notion of others' feelings. In a partnership, you often discover dark persuasion. In the worst case scenario, both partners are inclined to persuade the other darkly. The connection can be regarded as psychologically abusive if such efforts are persistent and durable. Some dark relationships include not allowing the other partner to take fresh jobs or take private pleasure. The obscure persuader will persuade the victim to act "for the sake of friendship." The victim merely hurts himself and the relationship in fact. The connection is being damaged as the dark persuader gains greater assurance that his victims can be manipulated.
 


 
 
 













 
Elements of persuasion
 


 
Like other types of control, some components are to be observed when it comes to persuasion. These components assist to identify which persuasion makes it clearer precisely. Perloff defined persuasion as a symbolic process in which communications try to convince other people to change their attitudes or behaviors regarding an issue by transmitting a message in an atmosphere of free choice. This is one salient feature that distinguishes persuasion from all other dark psychology themes since the victim is in most cases allowed to make choices out of their own will, I as much as persuasion tactics will later work towards changing his will to that of the persuader. The topic can choose the manner they want to believe, whether or not they want to buy a product, or whether they believe the proof behind the persuasion is powerful enough to alter their minds. A few components in persuasion assist in further describing what is while giving us a deeper understanding of this enigmatic theme.
 


 
The first element of this theme is that persuasion is often symbolic. This means that persuasion utilizes words, sounds, and images to get the message across to the specific victim. The logic behind this is quite simple really. For one individual to be able to persuade another into acting in a particular way, they will need to show them why they should act in a said way and not vice versa. This is best achieved by using word sounds or various images, you can use sentences to start a debate or argument to prove your point. Pictures are a great way to show the evidence needed to persuade someone to go one way or another. Some nonverbal signs are possible, but they are not as effective as using words and images
 


 
The second key is that persuasion will be used deliberately to affect how others act or think. This one is quite obvious; you don't use persuasion to get them to change if you don't deliberately try to affect others. To get the topic to believe the same way they do, the persuader will attempt distinct strategies. This could be as easy as having a discussion with them or presenting proof supporting their point of perspective. On the other hand, to change the subject's mind, it could involve much more and include more deceptive forms. More will be discussed later in this section on the methods used in persuasion. 
 


 
The distinctive thing about persuasion is that it enables some type of free will for the topic. In this way, the topic is permitted to create its own decision. For the most part, they don't have to go for it, no matter how hard somebody tries to persuade them of something. The subject might hear about the best car to buy a thousand commercials, but if they don't like that brand or don't need a new vehicle at that time, they won't go out and buy it. If the subject is against abortion, how many people will come out and say how great abortion is, it's not likely that the subject will change their minds. This enables much more freedom of choice than is found in the other types of mind control, which could explain why when questioned, many individuals do not see this as a kind of mind control. Persuasion is a type of mind control that can take place in many respects. While brainwashing, hypnosis and manipulation must happen face-to-face, and in some instances in full isolation, persuasion may happen otherwise.
 


 
 Examples of persuasion can be found everywhere, including when you talk to individuals you know, on the Internet, on radio and television. It is also feasible to deliver persuasive messages by nonverbal and verbal means; although when verbal methods are used it is much more efficient
 


 
 













 
Subliminal persuasion
 


 
The word "subliminal" means underneath our consciousness. Subliminal persuasion means an advertising message displayed below the threshold of awareness or consumer awareness to persuade, persuade, or help people change their minds without making them aware of what is going on. This is about affecting individuals with more than words. Some of the subliminal persuasion methods impact our stimuli with smell, eyesight, sound, touch, and taste. There are mainly three subliminal methods of persuasion to affect anyone. They are
 




 
Building a relationship-building relationship makes the other person feel comfortable. This will open up the other individual more. This can be accomplished through a healthy observation strength that matches their mood or state. This helps create confidence
 


 
Power of discussion–a powerful convincing person's power is much connected to an advertiser's conversion. The correct words and inflections help you to be openly straightforward.
 


 
Suggestive power-Associating useful and desirable stuff in discussion or interaction enables an individual to become more open to fresh thoughts.
 















 
Suggestion and emotional intelligence
 


 
This stage may be described as having one central and dominant idea focused on the participant's conscious mind, which was to stimulate or decrease the various regions' physiological performance within the participant's body. Later on, the use of different non-verbal and verbal suggestions was increasingly emphasized in order to convince the participant easily.
 


 













 
CHAPTER TWO: METHODS OF PERSUASION
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Since we have a firm grasp of what persuasion is, let us now dive in headfirst on the various methods of persuasion that are available to us. These persuasion methods can often be classified using other names and being referred to in such ways as strategies of persuasion and tactics.it is important to note that there is not only one method that may be used to persuade someone to think and act in the desired way. The manipulator is usually able to talk his victim in a way that they present a certain type of evidence that is generally geared towards switching the subject's mind, they may be able to use some sort of force or pull they have against the victim. This puts the victim in a position where they can perform some services for the victim or use another tactic. Examples of these tactics will be discussed in the concurrent pages of this chapter.
 


 
Manipulators often take their time in befriending their victims and make sure they admire them to the point of earning the victim's trust and confidence in them. It is after this solid trust base has been established that the persuader starts taking a jab at manipulating their victims. The dark manipulator will start off with some mild insincere positive percussion leading the victim into performing acts that are actually for their own benefits. This is done with three main objectives at heart. The first is to allow the victim to become accustomed to being persuaded by the persuader. This, in turn, makes it possible for the victim to associate the positive outcome of a particular persuasion closely. Once the two are fulfilled, then the persuader can easily persuade the victim to do something against their own self-interest without throwing them off.to get a clear image of this, let’s take the example of a divorced woman. She needs love and attention which was denied to her by her ex-husband. She is then befriended by her old college classmate who shows her intense love and supports, making her drop her guard after a few short months. He then takes on advisory roles like offering the best financial choices to make, which fulfills the criteria of small personal persuasions making her trust him even more. He will then go further to manipulate her to allow him to invest her money for her, but will instead steal the money leaving his victim in a financial runt shamelessly blaming it on her.
 


 
Usage of force
 


 
The first method we shall talk about is the usage of force. The manipulator may decide to use some degree of force to successfully persuade the victim into thinking in some specific type of way. This is, however, dependant on the situation at that particular moment. This is yet seen to be deployed in instances where, both the ideas of the manipulator and the victim do not seem to match up, the type of conversation they are having don’t seem to bear fruit or where the subject seems to be irritated or frustrated with the turn the conversation has taken. This may be classified as a scare tactic by most since it gives the victim minimal time to think logically of the events that seem to be transpiring as opposed to when the victim is of a normal state of mind. A manipulator is normally inclined to use force as a method of persuasion is usually when at that particular, they may have hit a wall on their journey of persuasion. They may also result in this if the manipulator feels as though he is losing control of the grasp he had on the victim, or when the victim presents them with solid evidence of the manipulator contradicting them.
 


 
An experienced manipulator is knowledgeable that this is not really the best tactic to use when they want to persuade a victim to something. This is because victims will be able to detect the use of force since they will feel cornered by the mode of conversation they might be having at that moment. The main allure of using force is centered on the notion of the victim being able to choose their own path. It is then after the deployment of force that the option of having a choice is taken away. Once the victim feels threatened by this, they will most likely listen closely to what the manipulative individual is saying so as to point out the red flags in his speech. Because of this, using force is to be used as a last resort of persuasion.
 


 
Asking leading questions
 


 
Another method that a dark manipulator skillfully uses is to ask leading questions. It could readily be considered one of the strongest verbal techniques because they ask the victims questions in order to obtain a specific set of responses. For example, a dark persuader may ask their target "how bad you think these people are." This issue already means that the individuals at issue are certainly bad to a certain extent. Dark persuaders ask such skilfully these leading questions, that they instantly feel the victim is whipped up to, leave the vessel and only go back to the questioning line when the victim appears to be in a relaxed position. Dark manipulators also use their real intentions to mask dark persuasion. To be easily exposed to dark persuasion, the dark manipulator hides from the outset his true intention; otherwise, he will fail. Skilled persuaders may mask their real intentions in a number of ways, depending on the individual victim and circumstance. Dark manipulators have a gift for individuals reading. This implies that once you recognize certain personality traits in individuals and then reverse psychology becomes simple to get what you want. Think of a situation with two buddies. One friend tries to win a girl's owner in the classroom while the other friend is the persuader. The persuader understands how badly his friend deals with the women. He chooses to take the unsuspecting woman into the arms of a third person knowing that he is a nice man. Another way of masking dark manipulators is by understanding that it is hard for many to decline two demands in a row. For instance, if a manipulator wishes to obtain a friend's credit form and does not want to return it then he first comes to the victim to think about how he is in a monetary slump, with an exorbitant sum in mind. If the victim expresses his failure to dispense the money, the manipulator then sets the figure well below the initial value, making it difficult for the victim to say "no."
 


 
Weapons of influence
 


 
Another method of persuasion that can be used is by using the weapons of influence that are available. Six main weapons of influence have been developed and passed on by one individual named Robert Cialdini. We shall discuss them in great depth below.
 


 
Scarcity
 


 
This is a weapon of influence that many people tend to be a bit familiar with but is often underestimated due to the basic definition of scarcity. If for one reason or another a particular idea or product has a limited time for which is available, it is most likely that a higher price will be attached to it. As human beings we are usually obsessed with chasing after that which we cannot get. When this issue of scarcity surfaces, it will play out depending on the context it is used under. What this means is that it may prove to be advantageous in certain scenarios more than in others. There are two main reasons why this tactic is likely to be successful. The first one is when products are usually a bit too hard to find. These goods will likely have a higher value attached to them. People attribute the high price to the fact that they are rare to find. The second reason is usually when something is not available as it normally has been. This makes the victim begin to feel that they will miss out on the chance of a lifetime. Once both of these have happened, the victim will begin to assign the service that is scarce a higher value simply since it is going to become a bit hard to acquire.
 


 
Liking
 


 
This weapon will entail the manipulative individual who will be motivated to make the victim like them. The reason for this is because once the victim likes this manipulative individual, there is usually more likely to say yes to them if ever they make any request. There are mainly two main factors that will contribute to how well the victim will like manipulators.
 


 
Reciprocity
 


 
This weapon is used in such a way that the victim will try to repay the manipulator in kind when the manipulator provides the victim, with something of value. This basically means that when the manipulator performs some kind of service to the victim, they will tend to feel that at some point they have an obligation to perform a service similar. While the two services may not be the same, they have the same value to match each other's obligations. The act of reciprocation ends up giving the subject a sense of obligation, which the manipulator can then use as a powerful tool when they want to use persuasion. The reciprocity rule is very effective as it helps the manipulator get the victim into the right frame of mind for the act of persuasion by instilling and overpowering the victim with a sense of duty. The manipulator may be more likely to convince the victim to do or act in some way because at this point will have that sense of duty hanging over them.
 


 
Commitment and consistency
 


 
This is where the manipulative individual will have to use both of these tools if they want any person to change their point of view of any particular thing. They are easier to understand when things are consistent and can help the subject make better decisions. It’s not good for the manipulator to always change the facts they use or change other information needed to help the victim process the information. Instead of helping with the persuasion process, keeping away constantly from consistency will make the agent look like a liar and someone who cannot be trusted, resulting in the persuasion process failure. Consistency is a great tool since it usually allows the victim to make the right decisions and process information.              If the manipulator wants to succeed in persuading the victim, they need to make sure their message is consistent. There is no room for false evidence that may later appear and ruin the entire process. Keep the facts accurate and concise, and to persuade the victim is much better.
 


 
Social proof
 


 
Persuasion is a form of social interaction and therefore the social rules where it occurs will have to be followed. The people around them will influence the victim; they will be more likely to want to do what others are doing instead of doing their own thing. The victim will base their beliefs and actions on what others do about them, how they act and how they believe the saying "the crowd's power" can be very effective under this belief. The victim will want to know at all times what other people around them are doing. In this country, being able to do what others are doing to fit in, even though people will say how they want to be different and be an individual, has become almost an obsession.
 


 
Authority
 


 
One way the manipulator will succeed in persuading the victim is by becoming an authority. Most people tend to believe that something an expert says about a topic is true. The victim is more likely to enjoy listening to a trusted and knowledgeable manipulator; this means that if the manipulative individual can bring these two things to the table, they are already on the way to getting their victim to listen and believe them.
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Persuasion techniques
 


 
Some techniques can be utilized to make persuasion more successful. All victims are usually presented with different forms of persuasion on a daily basis. A food manufacturing plant will work on getting their victims to purchase a new product. At the same time, a movie company will focus on persuading their victims to watch their latest movie projects. There are three main techniques of persuasion that have been prevalent since the birth of this theme. These three persuasion techniques that give the agent the most value and will be discussed in this section create a need, appeal to social needs, and use loaded images and words.
 













 
Create a need
 


 
This is one of the techniques that are often deployed by the manipulator so as to be able to get the victim to change their way of thinking. This creates a need or rather appeals to a need that is already pre-existing within the victim. If it is executed in a skilled way, the victim will be eating out of the persuader's palm in no time. This means that the manipulator will need to tap into the fundamental needs of their victim, for example, their need for self-actualization. In most casework, this technique will be so well for the manipulator because the victim is actually going to need these things. Food for example is usually something that we as humans need in order to survive and prolonged lack will pause as a big problem.  If the agent can convince the subject that their store is the best or get more food or shelter by switching their beliefs, there is a higher chance of success.
 













 
Utilizing illustrative and words
 


 
The choice of words one chooses to use comes a long way in the success of using persuasion. There are many ways in which you can phrase sentences when actually talking about one thing. Saying the right words in the right way will make all the difference when attempting to use persuasion.
 













 
Tricks used by mass media and advertising
 


 
The media use two main methods which they use to persuade the masses. First is through the use of images, as well as the use of sounds.
 


 
Media persuasion by use of images
 


 
Our sighs and visual processing areas of the brain are very powerful. Just think about it for a minute, have you ever thought of a person without ending up picturing how they look? It is because of this that makes imagery and visual manipulation a preferred method by the media. Companies will often include split-second images of their product or individual inserted into an advertisement that seems quite innocent at the face value. This usually a form of subliminal persuasion. These split-second images usually assumed for the most part usually take some form of control of the victim, which persuades them to purchase that particular service.
 


 
Media persuasion by the use of sound
 


 
Sound is yet another trick that is used by media in the persuasion of unsuspecting victims. Some people usually underestimate the powers that exist within the sound. But answer me this, how many times have you heard a song somewhere only to have it loops through your mind continuously? Songs usually influence us even though we are not aware of it despite knowing you listen to it. This is what the media tend to exploit in their quest for persuasion of the masses. There will often be a number of phrases skillfully hidden and repeated in an advertisement song that will most likely convince you to be inclined to prefer one company over the other. An example of this is seen at McDonald's. The melody ‘I’m loving it ‘is often repeated in a manner that persuades the victims to purchase their meals constantly.
 


 













 
CHAPTER THREE: BRAINWASHING
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
What is Brainwashing
 


 
Brainwashing is basically the process of conniving someone to give up the beliefs they had in the past to take on new ideas and values. There are many ways this can be done even though not all of them are considered bad. For instance, if you're from an African country and then move to America, you're often forced to change your values and ideals to fit in with the new culture and environment you're in. Many people have misunderstandings of what brainwashing is. Some people have more paranoid ideas about the practice, including mind control devices sponsored by the government, which are thought to be easily turned on the remote control. On the other hand, there are skeptics who don't believe brainwashing is possible at all and lying to anyone who claims it has happened. Most of the brainwashing practices will land in the middle of these two ideas somewhere.
 


 
During brainwashing practice, the subject will be persuaded by a combination of different tactics to change their beliefs about something. During this process, there is not only one approach that can be used, so it can be difficult to put the practice in a clean little box. The subject will mostly be separated from all the things they know. From there they will be broken down into an emotional state that makes them vulnerable before introducing new concepts. As the subject absorbs this new information, they will be rewarded for expressing thoughts and thoughts that go with these new thoughts. The rewarding is what is going to be used to reinforce the on-going brainwashing.
 


 
Brainwashing is not a new thing for society. People have used these techniques for a long time. Those who were prisoners of wars, for example, were often broken down in a historical context before being persuaded to change sides. Some of these most successful cases would turn the inmate into a very fervent convert to the new side. In the beginning, these practices were very new and would often be enforced depending on who was in charge. The brainwashing term has been developed over time and some more techniques have been introduced to make the practice more universal. The techniques have been introduced to make the practice more universal. The newer techniques would rely on the psychology field as many of those ideas were used to demonstrate how persuasive people could change their minds.
 


 
The brainwashing process is accompanied by many steps. It’s not something that's just going to happen to you as you go down the street and talk to someone you've just met. First of all, one of the main requirements for successful brainwashing is to keep the subject isolated. If the subject can be around other people and influences, they will learn how to think as an individual and there will be no brainwashing.
 


 
Once the subject is isolated, they will go through a process of breaking down their own self. They’re told all the things they know are wrong and they're made to feel like they're all wrong. The subject will feel like they're bad after months of going through all of this, and the guilt will overwhelm them. Upon reaching this point, the agent will begin to lead them to the desired new beliefs and identity system. The subject will be led to believe that all of the new choices are their own and therefore sticking is more likely. The entire brainwashing process can take several months to even years. It's not something that's going to happen in a conversation and it's not going to be able to happen outside of prison camps and a few isolated cases for the most part.
 


 
For the most part, when someone is just trying to persuade them from a new point of view, those who undergo brainwashing did so. For instance, if you're in an argument with a friend and they're convincing you their ideas make sense, you've been through brainwashing technically. It may not be evil, of course, and you could logically think about it all, but you were still convinced to change the beliefs you had before. It is very rare for someone to undergo true brainwashing where their entire value system will replace them. It will usually occur in the process of coming to a new point of view, irrespective of whether or not the tactics used were forcible.
 













 
Techniques used in brainwashing
 


 
Brainwashing is not always as intense as described in this section. The described methods are used for "real brainwashing" and are rarely used. There are many other brainwashing types that actually occur every day. Maybe they don't make you abandon your old identity completely in favor of a new one, but they help shift your thinking and thoughts about what is going on around you. This section will focus on some of the tactics frequently used during the brainwashing process whether it is true brainwashing.              
 


 
Hypnosis is sometimes a form of brainwashing. Basically, hypnosis leads to a high degree of suggestibility. This is often thinly disguised as meditation or relaxation. During the hypnosis process, the agent can suggest things to the individual hoping that they act or react in some manner. Many people know hypnosis from the stage shows they saw. It is often also used as a means of improving health. Everybody has an innate need to belong to Peer Pressure. This could be with a specific group, family, friends and the community. With the tactic of peer pressure, the doubt is eliminated that the subject feels along with the release of its resistance against new ideas by exploiting this strong necessity. If done properly, the subject may be more willing to experiment with new things, less shy about new people, and make new friends easier.              
 


 
Love Bombing
 


 
The feeling of family in people is very strong. This is the group into which you were born and supposedly have been around for your life. You know better than anyone, and those who missed such a relationship may find that they feel alone and unwanted. The manipulator can create a sense of the family with love bombing, by means of emotional connection, feeling and sharing and physical touch. This enables the manipulator and the subject to bind in a family manner, making it easier to trade in the new one's old identity.
 


 
Unbending rules
 


 
The manipulator's rules are often strict and will not be modified. These rules make it difficult for the victim to think and act by themselves; instead, they will spend time doing exactly what the manipulator tells them to do. There are many different rules that can fit into this category, such as those for disorientation and regression, all the way to how medicines, bathroom breaks, and food are allowed to be used. These rules are in place to control the victim completely during brainwashing.
 


 
Verbal abuse
 


 
Verbal abuse is one of the tactics used in the breakup phase. Often the victim gets desensitized when bombarded constantly with abusive and foul language. Physical abuse can sometimes supplement or replace verbal abuse.                            
 


 
Controlled approval
 


 
The manipulator will work to maintain confusion and vulnerability during the break-up period. One way to do this is by means of controlled approval. The manipulator will punish and recompense similar actions, in turn, making it difficult for the victim to know right
 


 
Rejecting old values 
 


 
The manipulator is trying to persuade the victim to denounce all of his values. As mentioned earlier in this chapter this process is accelerated by bullying, physical threats and other means. In the end, the subject will denounce the values and beliefs that it once held and begin to accept the manipulator's new way of life.              
 


 
Confusing Doctrine
 


 
This tactic will encourage the blind acceptance of the new identity while rejecting other logic the victim will possess. To do so, the manipulator is given a complex set of lectures on an unintelligible doctrine. Through this process, the subject will learn to blindly believe what the agent says, whether it concerns the doctrine or a new identity created.
 


 
Metacommunication 
 


 
This tactic is used when the manipulator inserts subliminal messages into the victim. This is done when the agent emphasizes certain words or phrases which are essential to the new identity. The phrases and keywords are implanted into confusing lengthy lectures through which the subject is forced to sit.              
 


 
No Privacy 
 


 
Privacy is a privilege that many victims will lose until they have become a new identity. This is taken as a way of making guilt and misdeeds more visible to the victim, but it also removes the subject's ability to assess the things that are said logically.              If the subject has privacy, they will have time to take the information they received in private and may find that they are untrue or not up to what they already believe. Removing this privacy means that the agent or officer is always around and always leads the victims to a new identity. 
 


 
Disinhibition
 


 
The manipulator encourages the victim to give childlike obedience during this tactic. This facilitates the manipulator's shaping of the subject's mind. 
 


 
The change in diet 
 


 
Changing the food consumed by the victim is another tactic that creates disorientation while increasing the sensitivity of the subject to emotional excitement. When the manipulator drastically reduces the food that the victim is allowed to consume, the victim's nervous system is deprived of the nutrients needed to prosper. In this category, drugs may also be added to the mix.
 


 
Games 
 


 
Games are sometimes used to induce greater group dependency. Games will be introduced, and most of them will be a victim to truly obscure rules. In some cases, the victim is not told about the rules and it must be identified or the rules are constantly changing. This tactic gives the agent more control.
 


 
No questions
 


 
The victim is not allowed to ask questions during the brainwashing process. Issues promote individual thinking, which is dangerous for the practice of brainwashing. If no questions are allowed, it helps the agent to accept the new identity automatically from the victim. 
 


 
Guilt
 


 
The victim was told they are bad and all they do is bad. Guilt is a common tactic used by the manipulator to challenge their beliefs and what happens around them. The sins of the victim's former lifestyle are exaggerated to bring guilt to life and strengthen the need for salvation in the victim. Fear is a powerful motivator and can do much more than the other tactics listed.              Manipulators may use fear to maintain the group's desired obedience and loyalty. To do this, the manipulator can threaten the individual's limb, life or soul for anything against the new identity.
 


 
Deprivation of sleep
 


 
If you don't have a sleep you need, you will often be vulnerable and disorientated. This can help to create the ideal environment the manipulator seeks during the brainwashing process breakdown and denomination. Moreover, the victims are often required to do prolonged physical and mental activities and insufficient sleep to speed up the process.
 


 
 
Dress codes 
 


 
Enforcing a dress code further removes the victim's individuality and the choice he has to pick his own clothing. Often, the victim is asked to wear the rest of the group's dress code during the brainwashing process. Chanting: the agent works towards the elimination of any uncultured ideas in the mind of the victim.              One way to do this is by chanting or repeating phrases used by those who follow the new identity. 
 


 
Confession 
 


 
Confession in people who are transforming from their old identity to the new identity is strongly encouraged. During this process, the subject destroys its own individual ego by acknowledging the agent's innermost doubts and personal weaknesses. Once you can let go of these things, a new identity can be introduced.
 


 
Financial commitments 
 


 
Financial contributions are required in some cases. This can help the officer in many ways. Firstly, the financial commitment enables the subject to rely more on the group because they may burn bridges to their past. They hope that they can overcome their shame and guilt, they donate different assets whether their car, home, money, or some other financial contribution. They are now attached financially to the new identity. In addition, these financial contributions can be used by the agent to foster its own needs. 
 


 
Pointing your finger 
 


 
If you can point your finger towards another, you will feel righteousness. This is your way of telling the world that you are good at simply pointing out some of the world's deficiencies. The manipulator may indicate all of the murder, racism, and gulf of the world, before contrasting it with the good of the new identity to which the victim is directed. 
 


 
Isolation 
 


 
When you're isolated from everything around you, it's hard to get outside opinions that may change your mind. That is what the agent will try because they don't want to get away with all their work. The brainwashers will be separated from society, friends, families and any other rational references that will change their thinking.
 


 













 
CHAPTER FOUR: HYPNOSIS
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
What is Hypnosis
 


 
There have been many definitions of what hypnosis actually is. The American Psychological Association has defined hypnosis as a cooperative interaction where the hypnotist will give suggestions to the person, and he picks which he or she will respond to. Edmonton said that a person is simply but in a deep state of mind when in undergoing hypnosis. Hypnosis is therefore when a person enters a state of mind in which a person finds himself or herself vulnerable to a hypnotist's suggestions. Hypnosis is not new to us because many people have seen it in movies, cartoons or actually been to magic shows or performances where participants are told to do usual acts and they do it. For sure, some people believe that hypnosis actually exists and would do anything to avoid being a victim while others believe that its fiction.
 













 
Induction
 


 
Induction is considered as stage one of hypnosis. There are three stages in total. Induction aims to intensify the partaker’s expectations of what follows after, explaining the role they will be playing, seeking their attention and any other steps needed during this stage. There are many methods used by hypnotists to induce a participant to hypnosis. One of them is the “Braidism” technique which requires a hypnotist to follow a few steps. This technique is named after James Braid. The first step would be to find a bright object and hold it in your left hand and specifically between the middle, fore, and thumb fingers. The object should be placed where the participant will be able to fix his or her stare and maintain the stare. This position would be above the forehead. It is always important that the hypnotist remind the partaker to keep their eyes on the object. If the participant wonders away from the object, the process will not work. The participant should be completely focused on the object. The participant’s eyes will begin to dilate and the participant will begin to have a wavy motion. A hypnotist will know that his participant is in a trance when the participant involuntarily closes his or her eyelids when the middle and forefingers of the right hand are carried from the eyes to the object. When this does not happen, the participant is beginning again being guided that their eyes are to close when the fingers are used in a similar motion. Therefore, this puts the participant in an altered state of mind he or she is said to be hypnotized. The induction technique has been considered not to be necessary for every case and research had shown that this stage is not as important as previously had been known when it came to the effects of the induction technique. Over the years, there have been variations in the once original hypnotic induction technique while others have preferred to use other alternatives. James Braid's innovation of this technique still stands out.
 













 
Suggestion
 


 
After Induction, the next stage that follows is the suggestion stage. James Braid left out the word suggestion when he first defined hypnosis. He, however, described this stage as attempting to draw the partaker's conscious mind to focus on one central idea. James Braid would start by minimizing the functions of different parts of the partaker’s body. He would then put more emphasis on the use of verbal and non-verbal suggestions to begin to get the partaker into a hypnotic state. Hippolyte Bernheim also shifted from the physical state of the partaker. This well-known hypnotist described hypnosis as the induction of a peculiar physical condition that increases one's susceptibility to the participant's suggestions. Suggestions can be verbal or one that doesn’t involve speech. Modern hypnotist uses a different form of suggestions that include non-verbal cues, direct verbal suggestions, metaphors and insinuations. Non-verbal suggestions that may be used include changing the tone, mental imagery and physical manipulation.  Mental imagery can take two forms. One includes those that are delivered with permission and those that are done none the less and are more authoritarian.
 


 
When discussing hypnosis, it would be wise if one would be able to distinguish between the conscious mind and the unconscious mind. Most hypnosis while using suggestions will try and trigger the conscious mind other than the unconscious mind. While other hypnotists will view it as a way of communicating with the unconscious mind. Hypnotists such as Hippolyte Bernheim and James Braid together with other great hypnotists see it as trying to communicate with the conscious mind. This is what they believed. James Braid even defines hypnosis as the attention that is focused upon the suggestion. The idea that a hypnotist will be able to creep into your unconscious mind and order you around is next to impossible as according to those who belong to Braids school of thought. The determinant of the different conceptions about suggestions has also been the nature of the mind. Hypnotists such as Milton Erickson believe that responses given are normally through the unconscious mind and they used the case of indirect suggestions as an example. Many of the nonverbal suggestions such as metaphors will mask the hypnotist's true intentions from the conscious mind of the victim. A form of hypnosis that is completely reliant upon the unconscious theory is a subliminal suggestion. Where the unconscious mind is left out in the hypnosis process then this form of hypnosis would be impossible. The distinction between the two schools of thought is quite easy to decipher. The first school of thought believes that suggestions are directed at the conscious mind will use verbal suggestions while the second school of thought who believe that suggestions are directed at the unconscious mind will use metaphors and stories that mask their true intentions. In general, the participant will still need to draw their attention to an object or idea. This enables the hypnotist to lead the participant in the direction that the hypnotist will need to go into the hypnotic state. Once this stage of suggestion is completed and is successful, the participant will move onto the next stage.
 













 
Susceptibility
 


 
 
 


 
It has been shown that people are more likely to fall prey to the hypnotist tactics than others will. Therefore, it will be noted that some people are able to fall into hypnosis easily and the hypnotist does not have to put so much effort. At the same time, for some, getting into the hypnotic stage may take longer and require the hypnotist to put quite the effort.  While for some even after the hypnotist's continued efforts, they will not get into the hypnotic state. Research has shown where a person has been able to reach the hypnotic state at some point in their lives then it is likely that they will be susceptible to the hypnotist’s suggestions and those who have not been hypnotized or it has always been difficult for them to reach that state then it will be likely that they may never be able to reach that hypnotic state.
 


 
Different models have been established to determine the susceptibility of partakers to hypnosis. Research done by Deirdre Barrett showed that there are two types of subjects that considered being more susceptible to hypnosis and its effects. The two subjects consist of the group of dissociates and fantasizers. Fantasizers are able to easily block out the stimuli from reality without the specific use of hypnosis. They daydream a lot and also spent their childhood believing in the existence of imaginary friends. Dissociates are persons who have scarred childhoods. They have experienced trauma or child abuse and found ways to put away the past and become numb. If a person belongs to this group finds him or herself day dreaming, then it will be associated with being blank and creating fantasies. These two groups will have the highest rates of being hypnotized.
 


 
 
 













 
Types of Hypnosis
 


 
A hypnotist can use different types of hypnosis as a participant. Each of them will use different ways and will help with certain issues. Some types of hypnosis will assist in weight loss while others will be used to help a participant relax. The types of hypnosis are discussed below.
 


 
Traditional hypnosis
 


 
This type of hypnosis is very popular and used by hypnotists. It works by the hypnotist making suggestions to the participant’s unconscious mind. The participant who is likely to be hypnotized by this does what he is told and does not ask many or frequent questions. If one were to self-hypnotize themselves, they would do this by using traditional hypnosis. Like we have said, this type of hypnosis is very popular and this could be attributed to it not requiring much skill and not technical. The hypnotist will just have the right words and just tell the participant what to do. This might pose a problem to the hypnotist where the participant is a critical thinker and is able to analyze a given situation.
 


 
 
 


 
Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP)
 


 
This type of hypnosis gives the hypnotist wide criteria for the methods they can use in hypnosis. The hypnotist is able to save time during the process as the hypnotist will just use the same thought patterns like the one that is creating the problem in the participant. If it is stress for example, the same thought pattern causing this stress will be used to counter the stress. The different types of NLP are discussed below.
 


 
NLP Anchoring
 


 
To understand how anchoring works, think of a particular scent. The first time you had that scent, you were going through some feeling that the unconscious mind was attached to that scent. Through this, the scent will become the anchor for those particular feelings. Every time you heard the scent, those feelings come rushing back triggered by the unconscious mind. This type of NLP has been useful to hypnotists in the process of hypnosis. If you won a prize or some money for example, the hypnotist will try and recreate those feelings you had when you won the prize. While recreating these feelings, the hypnotist will ensure the participant does an action during this process. Each time the subject does the said action, they will be reminded of those feelings.
 


 
This type of NLP can motivate a person to accomplish their goals for example if they are trying to be healthier or trying to lose weight. The hypnotist will create a positive anchor that is in line with the mental image of the participant. The mental picture will be that of a sexy slim body. This image will be used as the motivator to start losing weight.
 


 
NLP Flash
 


 
This technique should only be done by a certified professional because it is considered very powerful and used to alter thoughts and emotions around the participant's unconscious mind. It is considered helpful to persons who experience chronic stress or are addicted to a substance. Here is what the hypnotist will do; he or she is addicted to a substance instead of it causing some feelings of happiness the act will now cause feelings of pain. Where the person had chronic stress, the cat will bring a sense of relaxation. Those addicted to substances such as cigarettes and alcohol will now feel pain when they take these substances, which can effectively assist them in getting over their addiction. While those undergoing chronic stress will find this technique also very useful, it helps them relax because stress can be very harsh to one’s body. They will be able to know what causes their stress and redirect them to cause feelings of relaxation instead. NLP flash has been effective in getting rid of conditioned responses found in the mind of the subject.
 


 
A practical example will be a person who enjoys drinking alcohol in events. Whenever this person is at an event even where no alcoholic drinks are being served, he will associate every event with alcohol. When this person goes through NLP Flash, they will be to separate these two events from each other. This means the person will enjoy an event without thinking about alcohol and will be effective when trying to quit consuming alcohol.
 


 
NLP Reframe
 


 
This is the third type of NLP that can be used in hypnosis. It aims and works well in helping the participant change the way they behave. The hypnotist, for this work, should be able to comprehend that there is a positive outcome when the behavior is changed. The focus on the outcome is critical as this is the reason for using this form of NLP in the first place. Despite this, the behavior chosen to achieve the outcome is not as important. The process involves the hypnotist trying to engage with the unconscious mind of the participant. The end game is to get the unconscious mind responsible for the participant’s new chosen behavior to help achieve the secondary gain. This new behavior will then be more acceptable to the conscious mind of the participant.
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
Ericksonian Hypnosis
 


 
This type of hypnosis uses stories and metaphors. This hypnosis uses stories and metaphors to create ideas and suggestions in the unconscious mind. This hypnosis is very effective and powerful, but the only downside it has is that it requires someone who is experienced and trained to work and be effective. What is the reason behind its efficacy? The reason underlying is that it is able to eliminate any resistance to the suggestions of the hypnotist. The metaphors used will be of two types. The first is called isomorphic metaphors. This is a common metaphor that gives steps to the unconscious mind by presenting s somewhat story to the participant that in the end will have a moral ending. The unconscious mind will be able to link the elements coming from the story and the element of the problem situation. An example of a story with a moral ending is the famous story of the ‘Boy Who Cried Wolf.’ This story was told to children to warn them about what would happen when they continuously lie. The children being told this story will be able to link the telling of lies and the boy who is mentioned in the story.  They will be able to see that lies can bring problems and that the child will willingly stop lying to avoid problems. The other metaphor is the intersperse metaphor. Here the command explained in the story is not easily understood by the participant outside their unconscious mind.
 


 













 
CHAPTER FIVE: DARK NLP
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 













 
What is NLP
 


 
When you hear of the term NLP, what’s the first thing that comes to mind? Probably something straight out of Star Wars right? Well, you might be dead wrong. This is an acronym of Neuron-linguistic programming. This is one of the prevalent themes that exist in the quest for persuasion and dark psychology. Over the years, NLP has often had different meanings; it could be defined as a particular attitude for a sense of adventure and curiosity to know more about the types of coo=immunization that can influence others as well as ourselves offering us a rare chance to better ourselves or juts grow as individuals. It has also been defined as a methodology purely based on the notion that all the behaviors we have as human beings have a certain structure and process. These processes as well as structures may be replicated, taught, learned as well as changed. It has also been defined as being a theme that has slowly evolved into an innovative technology, which allows us to organize our thoughts and ideas in a way that allows us to organize our thoughts in ways that allow us to achieve a particular set of results that would normally be out of our reach. Perhaps the best and easily understood definition of NLP would be that it is a sort of learning system that develops a particular language through making connections between various senses of your body. It has been in existence for more than 40 years and proved to be efficient. NLP is not as closed off as you may think since it is such a wide raging discipline that it's mostly difficult to encompass all its branches and applications in our short definition. Using this enigmatic theme usually results in the altering or full elimination of existing behaviors if by any chance we are not satisfied by them to a more acceptable set of behaviors.
 


 
Neuron-linguistic programming is not usually based on the notion of new-age mantras or hanging some herbal trees in your room to be more notches with your inner self. This theme of dark psychology is usually based on some solid psychological principles. It is a rapid form of psychological therapy which is capable of addressing the myriad of problems that we are doomed to face in our day to day lives such as depression, some form of phobias or any form of negative habits we may have. This is not an inclination to an esoteric or spiritual approach to problems in the long run; using NLP will improve our effectiveness both in our professional lives as well as our personal lives. Contrary to traditional psychology which is usually all about analyzing our problems to find its root cause, NLP instead focuses on the endless possibilities of how the mind works to present results as humans. The thoughts in our minds, the feelings we have, and all the actions that we do are essentially what makes us human, and changing these traits will result in the emergence of a ‘new’ you.
 


 
NLP is the art of science and personal excellence. It’s regarded as an art because of the sole reason that every individual usually their own unique personality and distinct style of how we generally do things and can never be captured in words or just techniques. The science bit of it is attributed to the method and process used to discover patterns used by outstanding individuals in any field to achieve outstanding results. Another name this process may also be referred to is modeling. Any such patterns and techniques that may be discovered in this particular way have been used more in the fields of education, business, sports and counselling for a more effective communication with others, a more detailed mode of personal development, and learning. Have there ever been instances where you have worked so hard on a particular thing and the end result leaves you dumbfounded? Have you ever just been taken aback by what you did and just wondered what and how you did that? NLP usually shows you how to understand and model your own personal feats of success, allowing you to enjoy and have more moments of these euphoric feelings. It’s a way of just discovering your own inner genius. Think of it as a way in which that allows you to bring out the best in yourself and the people around you. This is a practical skill that has the setting of creating your desired results in the world, while at the same time creating values for other people. It is generally the study of what separates excellent and average, leaving behind a trail of efficacious education and business techniques.
 


 
Neuro-linguistic programming usually refers to the three most important facets in creating our human experience. The neurological system regulates how our bodies tend to function. The language usually decides how we communicate and interact with others in our day-to-day lives. At the same time, the programming is usually a dominant factor of all the images and models of the world we create for ourselves. Broken down, NLP seeks to describe the overall relationship between the mind and language and their impact on our body and behavior. Basic psyching seeks to divide the mind into three essential parts namely, the ego, the id and the superego. These three seem to resonate between all models in all psychological literature and practice. NLP atoll has these three models, but it takes a more metaphorical extensible and positive approach. NLP's process proposes that the innermost internal parts should be well undersold used in a strictly metaphorical sense rather than a literal fact.
 


 
Besides the few discussed features, NLP has some other distinct features that we shall briefly mention. NLP is not usually based on any statistics. The reason for this is that statistics may not be able to predict a person’s subjective experience. This is because the external sensory experience does not understand human beings' subjective experiences. Another distinct feature of NLP is that it is not linear. This enigmatic theme sent usually limits itself to any particular linear cause effect thinking. This happens to be so because it has a preference for whole system thinking. This system tends to be self-organizing and too complex for useful linear cause-effect analysis.
 


 
Another feature is that it is not Aristotelian. What does this mean? It has been defined over the years as a process and structure oriented and not really classification oriented. NLP on a basic is more geared towards putting people into categories based on their personality types rather than assisting them in growing and healing. NLP can also be really efficient.as is now familiar to you; NLP usually does not pursue case effects of an unresolvable nature. Such question-answer sequences like… Why? NLP prefers to ask a useful set of questions such as how? What? When? Who? Since this has few expectations. It is of the view that taking the long personal history of the individual for some casual analysis is basically a colossal waste of time. However, it will opt to take that route when it is absolutely appropriate direct as it’s presently coded in a person’s mind. This dark theme has a set of powerful tools that when utilized correctly by the individual who has come across them can make some drastic positive change to their on-going experience of personal history as well as its meaning, patterns which emerged as a result of one’s own life experiences and other factors connected with their past. This is, however devoid of the use of any drugs, hypnosis or years of analysis.
 


 
NLP is a non-reductionist. NLP considers reductionism such as the belief that our feelings and experiences are just the results of genetics or just chemical processes in the Brain. This is usually resultant of the linguistic confusion as a theme. NLP can be considered to some level as being post-Newtonian. This means that NLP has a solid footing in the advances in physics in the late 20th century, which observes that the universe is usually made up of processes and patterns as opposed to a collection of objects or things. The last feature is that NLP does not seem to share the same definition as psychology. This is particularly true if you look at the behavioral point of view. Here, behaviors include thought structures like values and beliefs, memory, sensory representations, linguistic structures in thinking, etc., none of which have the capability of being directly observed externally. Yet absolutely no reasonable person would deny the very importance and meaning of internal experiences in our lives.
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
How to use NLP in purchase
 


 
 
 


 
Establish rapport
 


 
The first element of the report is the way people move quickly. Have you ever noticed that people tend to move at certain speeds? They move at some speeds. It is about how information is processed–whether visually, through auditing, or kinaesthetically. So, if you meet someone, for instance, which is extremely visual and you're not quite there, you're sitting in your chair, breathing from the top of your lungs and being excited. Or at least act in a way that corresponds to what they do.
 


 
On the other hand, if you meet someone who is a little more audacity, you want to slow down a little, modulate your voice a little more and 'listen, really listen.' And talk about feelings to them. Alter your voice so it fits yours and "get a feeling of it." The second element in the relationship is the physical reflection of the physiology of the individual. Actually, copying their postures physically, facial expressions, hand gestures, and motions and blinding the eyes will cause their bodies to say to them subconsciously, "Hey, (s) he’s like me!” The nervous system is undeniable. The third element is to match their voice: The tone, tempo, timbre (quality of the voice), and the volume.
 


 
You can also match their keywords. Perhaps, they often say, “Actually.” You can use it in a sentence several times. Say it back to them. The fourth aspect is to match the breathing, simply to speed up someone's breathing, precisely as they do – to match the breath in and out. The fifth element is to match the size of the information parts in your speech. Please remember that when you start using these advanced communications means, that none of these modes of operation in another person is correct or incorrect, they are just how people work. You also want to maintain in mind that individuals are best contacted when you interact with them in the manner, they process data to be a master communicator. You can also match the predicates and predicate phrases of a person.  Look now and notice the words and phrases used by individuals in every major system of representation. In each significant representation scheme, individuals use distinct terms, distinct sentences that show what's happening within their heads. You can also ask questions when you start to notice and use this.
 


 
Ask questions
 


 
The second step is questioning. Of course, the first and second steps will take place simultaneously. You can report simultaneously when you ask questions. I don't mean to ask one or two questions; I mean to ask enough questions until you see what the individual will purchase. Please ask them questions about what they will purchase. As you ask questions, you should suppose they will purchase whatever you sell, and all you need to do is ask sufficient questions so that you can see how they will purchase it. This particular sales process is a question-making process and a one-on-one communication with your customer. And through relations and questions you get into one-on-one communication. When you ask questions, you need to be truly interested. You need to be interested, not interesting.
 


 
Establish value
 


 
The value-finding process begins in finding a need or opportunity that can be filled by your product or service. If you have discovered a need or opportunity to ask questions, you will determine the value or opportunity to solve the problem. Finally, the value of your product or service is linked to the need of the buyer.
 


 
This is a truly significant step. By the way, the way I like to ask the questions is ' You can see any value to you...' 
 


 
Suppose he feels like too many people are waiting for the computer to use, and it is always tied up. You can say, "Can you see any value in getting your computer to function quicker?” The issue is, “Can you see any significance?” That is how I ask: “Can you see any value for yourselves?” And in this event the price would be quicker or less waiting time for the computer. Or he may find that people are always waiting to come to the computer, and you may isolate that it is perhaps because it takes so long to print. Then you can tell him, "Do you see any importance in printing being unattended where you can dump the whole thing in a buffer and printing without supervision?”
 


 
Close
 


 
When you find a need or opportunity, identify the solution's value, link the need and the solution and anchor it, then close the solution.
 


 
Handle the objection
 


 
This is done mainly in two ways. You may either chose to ignore the objection, or you can simply choose to answer the objection.
 













 
Induction
 


 
Some of the non-state theorists saw this phase somewhat differently. Instead, they see this stage to raise the participants' expectations on what will happen, determine the role they will play, focus their attention in the right direction, and take any other steps needed to take them in the right direction for hypnosis. During hypnosis, there are several induction techniques. Braid's "eye-fixation" technique or "Braids" is the most known and influential method. You need to follow a few steps to use the Braid induction techniques. The first is to take any bright object like a watch case and hold it between the center, forehead and thumb fingers on the left hand. This object is about 8-15 inches from the participant's eyes.
 


 
Hold the object somewhere above the forehead to make the eyelids and eyes stressed during the process so that the participant can always maintain a fixed look at the object. The hypnotist must then tell the participant that he should always keep his eyes fixed on the object. The patient must also fully concentrate his mind on the idea of that particular object. You must not think of other things or allow your minds and eyes to wander or the process will not succeed. After a short period of time, the eyes of the participant begin to expand. With a little more time, the participant starts to take a wavy move. When the middle and forefingers of the right side unwillingly close their eyes, they are in a trance, when the middle and forefingers of the right hand are carried from the eyes to the object. If not, the participant has to start again; make sure the participant knows they have to allow their eyes to close once the fingers are carried back to the eyes in a similar movement. This will cause the patient to enter the altered state of mind called hypnosis.
 













 
How to use NLP in relationships and manipulative people
 


 
Now that we know all that NLP entails, let us see how it can be used in relationships. The first way this theme can help you better your relationship, is by enabling you to be a good listener. NLP enables you to show a more sincere interest in whatever may happen in the other person's own life. Another way NLP betters relationships is by making you put yourselves in another person’s shoes. Being in the world of the other person requires you to listen openly. In other words, you're listening and you're just listening. This can take some practice since most individuals listen partly while preparing or rehearsing what they say next internally. NLP also allows you to not focus on the bad side of a person but instead so the good. There are many of them, and you have a decision to pay more attention to their fine points or imperfections. The more you find the fine points of a person and concentrate on them, the greater your regard for them.
 


 
NLP also allows one to be more empathetic rather than sympathetic. Empathy means understanding and feeling their difficulties without trying to engage unless requested. Sympathy, being sorry for them, is disrespectful and shows that you feel that they have no resources alone to deal with their own problems. NLP fosters relationships since they push someone to keep in touch with their loved ones. Even if you were together several hours before, maybe at breakfast, how about a one-minute telephone call, asking how your day is going and telling you to think about them? Or a one-line email or text email? Keep in touch with those at a distance, too. If nourished, long-distance relationships may last for decades. The connection will be maintained and maintained by the occasional letter, card, telephone call or email.
 


 
NLP makes it easier for one to accept the flaws of others. Identify and tolerate the weaknesses and imperfections of a person. After all, "weaknesses" are subjective assessments based on your view of the world. And remember that there are no perfect people–most of us work from time to time to reduce the number and magnitude of our imperfections–this is a lifelong project. This broad theme makes it possible for you to respect and accept the point of view of others. Recognize that we see stuff otherwise. We all have a distinct perspective of the globe. This perspective or model of reality is based on our previous experience of life. There is no' correct' or' false' world view— it is a matter of opinion, and so will your opinions alter from time to time. By taking the time to learn about their ever-changing view of the world, you might learn things to enrich or extend your own. NLP will finally make you accept someone as they are without having the urge to change who they are. This is a particularly frequent failure in life partnerships. Remember that you did not choose the individual because of their potential to be the person you wanted to be. You got together because you enjoyed each other and concentrated only on the stuff you knew about them in the first wave of love. How, then, are we beginning to live together or marry and starting to crowd up the' good points ' lists, becoming increasingly obsessed with listing and reminding them that we don't like things about them?
 


 













 
CHAPTER SIX: BODY LANGUAGE
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
Body language cue
 


 
When you try to know more about your goal and how they view the world, body language is going to be so crucial. Too many times we get caught in the words that someone else tells us and we won't concentrate on the other indications they also give us. There is so much that can be disclosed by these body language clues, and it makes a large difference in how effective you are in understanding and working with your goals. 
 


 
Body language will refer to some of the nonverbal signals we use to interact with others. These nonverbal signals will take up much of the interaction we communicate every day. From our body's movement to our facial expressions and everything in between, things we don't say can still share a ton of information during the process. Indeed, 60 to 65% of our interaction could be accounted for by body language and other nonverbal communications. So how do we learn to read this language to our own advantage? Let's begin by learning more about the various indications of body language, and how we can read this for our benefit. First off we have the facial expressions.
 


 
Think of a time, by the expression on your face, about how much data someone can convey. A smile is a nice way to show happiness or consent. A frown can imply the other way around. In some instances, facial expressions can show our real emotions about a scenario. While an individual may say he's okay, he looks like he's talking when he says this might talk otherwise. There are many feelings on our facial expressions, including: 
 


 
1.
Contempt
 


 
2.
Desire
 


 
3.
Excitement
 


 
4.
Confusion
 


 
5.
Fear
 


 
The expression that appears on the person's face helps us to determine if we trust and think anything the person says. In reality, one research discovered that the most credible of all facial expressions would be a small eyebrow raise and a slight smile. This is an expression that in many instances shows us to trust and friendliness.
 


 
The other type of body language cue will have to be the mouth. Mouth expressions and emotions can be another vital component of body language reading. For instance, if you notice someone else chewing on his bottom lip, it may show feelings of insecurity, fear, and worry. The individual can cover his mouth to be polite when he coughs, but sometimes the other person's disapproval. And smiling will be one of the best signals of corporeal language, but the smile and what it says about a person can be evaluated differently. Some of the stuff you can care about when reading someone else's mouth movements include;
 




 
Pursed lips: If you see your goal tightened up, it's a sign of distrust, disagreement, and disgust. 
 


 
Lip is biting: This is when you bite your lower lip, usually when you are stressed, anxious, or distressed. 
 


 
Mouth cover: Any moment someone wishes to conceal one of their emotional responses, they can cover their mouths in order to assist. 
 


 
Turned up or down: Even a slight shift in your mouth can be a subtle indication of how you feel right now. When your mouth turns up, it's a sign that you are hopeful or glad. It could be a grimace, disagreement, and even sorrow when the mouth turns down.
 




 
Another area to observe as body language cue is gestures. Gestures can be a very evident, direct sign of body language to be careful about. Waiving, pointing and fingering can be common and easy to understand gestures. Some may even be cultural. Some of the most popular gestures and the significances that come with them include: 
 




 
A clung fist: In most cases, this will show anger, but sometimes it can also imply solidarity. 
 


 
Up or down thumbs: This is used as a sign of approval and disapproval. 
 


 
The "all correct" gesture: This one will help others say you're fine in the United States. But it is seen in some other cultures as a vulgar gesture.
 




 
The next thing we have to do is look at the arms and legs of the individual you talk to. These can be useful if a lot of information is to be transmitted nonverbally. Crossing the weapons will often be a defensive maneuver. Crossing the legs away from another individual will also show a person's discomfort or a dislike. 
 


 
Other subtle signals, including the large expansion of the arm, can sometimes help us to seem bigger and more comfortable while maintaining the arms close to the body. When you try to measure your body language a little, be careful about some of the following signals that your legs and arms will transmit to you from the target:
 




 
Crossed arms: This will give you a signal that you're closed, safe and defensive. As a manipulator, you need to uncross the arms of the goal to make you feel comfortable. 
 


 
Standing on hips with your hands: This can be a good sign that the person is ready and controlled. This will sometimes be a sign of aggression. 
 


 
Clamp the hands so that they're behind the back: This will be a sign that your goal is angry, anxious or boring. You have to look at some of the other signals that come first. 
 


 
Tap fingers or fidgeting quickly: The other person is frustrated, impatient and even bored. 
 


 
Crossed legs: This is a good indication that someone feels closed or needs some privacy.
 




 
Posture is another thing you should look at. The way we hold our bodies will also be a significant component of body language. Posture refers to how we hold our bodies and to a person's general physical shape. Posture can give a wealth of data on how someone feels and suggests that a person's features are submissive, open or confident. 
 


 
For instance, if you sit directly, it can show that an individual is concentrated and is attempting to look after what is going on. Sitting down with the body, on the other side, will show that someone is most of the time indifferent or bored. Looking at your goal will help you understand whether you are interested in what you do or say or if you need to move on to find a different destination. 
 


 
Whenever you attempt to read some of your body's languages, attempt and find out some signals that your goal's position is attempting to tell you. Some of them are: 
 




 
Open posture. Open posture. This includes keeping the body's trunk exposed and open. This sort of 
 


 
Closed position: this one will require hiding the body's trunk and hitting the legs and arms. This posture will be more indicative of anxiety, discomfort, and depression in the objective.
 















 
The eyes clues to revealing true intentions
 


 
The visual gateway to the globe around us is our eyes. When born, we scan for data in the familiar face, motion or novelty, color, shade, symmetry and always for aesthetic pleasure.
 


 
Our visual cortex, which is big in ratio to the remainder of the brain, is looking for fresh things and fresh experiences. Our eyes demonstrate love and compassion and fear and contempt. Welcome or happy eyes can create our day. But eyes can also let us know that something is wrong, that issues or issues exist. In a crowd of strangers, the eyes can own space or cower. We adorn our eyes so that we can attract and prevent them. They are usually the first thing we notice in others, and so we spend a lot of time looking at the eyes when a baby is born maybe because we look at their soul through the window.
 


 
Our pupils expand when we are comfortable or like something or someone we meet. We have no control. We have no control over this.
 


 
If couples are comfortable, their pupils dilate as their eyes attempt to get as light as possible. This is why dimly lit restaurants are excellent places to meet, as it softens the eyes and increases the students' size, which makes us relax even more around others.
 


 
 













 
Signs of the shoulders neck and hips
 


 
Shoulders
 


 
Whether they are broad, narrow, athletic, slim, attractive, beguiling, or slumping, our shoulders speak volumes about us. Some identifiers will be explained below.
 


 
An ear-raised shoulder when an individual answers a question is generally insecurity or doubt. In combination with other behaviors, this indicates well that a person lacks trust in what he says (hesitation in answering, arms drawing closer to the body). When a party raises a single shoulder in negotiations in reaction to a question such as "Is that your best price? It usually indicates that there is space for negotiation. A one-shoulder response indicates that there is no complete commitment to what is said. The slow, deliberate increase of one shoulder combined with a bent head to the same shoulder while making direct contact with the eye represents a private interest. We generally see this in dating circumstances, generally in females who look like someone. When individuals are asked a question and do not understand the response, they lift rapidly and prominently both shoulders. The swift upward motion is serious conduct that is defiant. In this situation, these are generally associated with favorable feelings. This is more honest than a slow shrug (as "I don't know" reply) or a shrug with only one shoulder hesitating.
 


 
Neck
 


 
Beyond a scratch, neck touch is a good measure of insecurity, fear, anxiety, concerns or problems. However, we tend to touch our neck slightly if something disturbs us or concerns us. Neck touch is often ignored in all its forms, yet it's one of the most accurate when exposing something that bothers us. The touch or covering of the "neck dimple" or suprasternal notch (the indented throat region under the Adam apple and just above the upper thorn) shows concern, concern, worry, insecurity, or anxiety. Men tend to grab or cover this area robustly by their hands while adjusting or grabbing their collar. Women touch this region more often than males, and with the tips of their fingers they tend to do so more lightly. Whether delicately or forcefully, the weakest point of the body means something is at stake. When we feel threatened, our neck developed most probably due to the innumerable encounters our species experienced numerous acts of predation by the big felines that generally go for the neck. See What everybody is saying for more data. Playing with a collar is used by females to cover the dimple neck with the hand. It protects a susceptible region and alleviates stress by repeated motion. The front shirt collar is used for pacification or alleviating strain in three respects: by covering the neck region, as repetitive tactile conduct, and by shifting clothes to vent the skin below.
 


 
Hips
 


 
Hip swiveling is a way to deal with stress, boredom or exhaustion in a single location. People could do this, either when their feelings are rallied or afterward, in controversial discussions, as a method of calming down. You rarely see this with couples at an early stage; they tend to appear, if any, on the path when problems are discussed. Under pressure, individuals are rubbed as a pacifier by their hips and legs. It is also used for drying sweaty hands when you feel nervous. You see this gesture as learners prepare for an exam or as people pass customs. Persons under psychological stress can rock back and forth on the hips while sitting. Serious stress such as witnessing a loved one's death will trigger this conduct, pacifying with its repetitive movement. This conduct could also be seen in individuals with certain mental illnesses such as autism. If we're bored, we might stand and swing our hips, as if we were cradling and sleeping a child. Swinging our hips leads our inner ears to move fluid and hair, and it is a very calm feeling. This is distinct from the forward and back hip-torso rocking.
 













 
Mimic body language
 


 
Mimicking is a social phenomenon in which people imitate another person's posture, gestures, and words. Often it is unconscious conduct–we rarely know this when we do–but it's a sign that individuals are in harmony and synchronization with one another. When two persons look at each other, it demonstrates convenience, trust, and the relationship between them. Long-term friends and romantic couples are especially attuned. You will often notice couples mirror themselves as they communicate if you ever go to a populous pubic region, such as a park, a mall or a busy road. As social humans, it is part of our basic nature. For instance, in my apartment, I have a balcony over a busy road in Brooklyn. It's a nice place for me to observe human behavior casually.
 


 
One prevalent thing I discover is that couples walk in a lock. They move in ideal synchrony with their correct and left foot, like a marching band. They also tend to look at each other and look away simultaneously. They appear to be linked. Mimicking can be seen in many respects as taking a viewpoint or empathy. Previous studies in psychology show that our bodies show a lot about how we think and feel ("embodied cognition" is the word for this). Thus, if we adopt another individual's positions and body language, we can better understand what other individual experiences from their view. Not only do you like to see yourself reflected, but it's also deeper than that. Mimicking demonstrates readiness to comprehend and communicate with someone truly.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
CHAPTER SEVEN: COVERT EMOTIONAL MANIPULATION
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The first step to fully understanding dark psychology is by first fully grasping what covert emotional manipulation is. This because many dark psychology techniques we shall talk about in this book often make use of covert emotional manipulation in more than one specific way. Learning more about this particular theme will grant you a higher understanding of what it actually consists of and recognize its v various manifestations across the board. Therefore, this is a crucial step in understanding this wider topic of dark psychology in general.
 


 
What then have people often beloved covert emotional manipulation to be? This is defined as an attempt by an individual to influence the thoughts 
 


 
Feelings of another person in a sneaky yet undetectable way. Breaking down each of the three keywords will perhaps assist in handling the very base of this theme. Covert simply refers to the way that these manipulators are able to hide their true nature as well as intentions from their target victims. Not all emotion manipulation, however, can classify as being of a covert nature. In most cases, the victims of this type of emotional manipulation will not be aware that they are being controlled from the shadows, nor aware of the manipulator's motivation as to why he is doing it.
 


 
 The emotional part of this theme refers to the specific focus of the manipulator. Other possible types of manipulation usually include people’s will power, beliefs, and behaviors. This type of manipulation is mainly centered on impacting a person’s emotional state and their perception of reality. A majority of the manipulators dwell on this area the most since they will often lead to them fully grasp a person’s emotions seeing that they are the gateway to all the other aspects of their personality. This ultimately makes the manipulator take full control of the victim from the word go.
 


 
Manipulation is the final piece to covert manipulation of this rather complicated puzzle. Manipulation is generally misunderstood and is that it is the same as influence. This could not be further from reality as manipulation is often referred to as the concealed process of undue influence that is said to have occurred outside the consciousness of the individual who has fallen prey to control. There are also distinct intentions for both manipulation and impact that drive them.
 


 
An individual who regards himself as an influencer will often try to help a person in one manner or another only in general. A manipulator is a reverse opposite since its purpose is to regulate their victims secretly for their own gain, mostly without consideration for their victim. Therefore, in the difference between whether or not a specific action is manipulative, the intention is important.
 


 
More generally speaking, situations, where this type of manipulation can be used are within the scope of an individual's private, professional, romantic and family life. Romantic covert emotional manipulation is undoubtedly the most lethal and common type of emotional manipulation. But once the toy understands both its fundamental idea and its practical adaptations, you will at least be able to erect mechanisms that can be used to protect yourself against this regardless of the scenario in which you are. Like these prevalent cases where it is frequently manifested, some prevalent kinds of people express the thoughts that support covert emotional manipulation. The trick to understanding this theory fully will require one to be able to find a relationship between this complex theory to the actual individual portrayals of its ideas. one such example of these personal portrayals of stealthy manipulation is in the broad field of relationships. Normally, if two people are in a relationship, one notices that the other is trying to assert a certain type of control.
 


 
In one way or another, the victim of this attempted control often chooses to leave said relationship since that is a line crossed. It is because of this very reason that, that most manipulators decide not to be open on their approach but instead approach manipulation in a very covert manner. The victim often gets subjected to complete emotional manipulation, without having to realize what is going on. This is often beneficial to the manipulator since he can get his heart’s desire to control another person while at the same time managing not to lose the victim.
 


 
A friend may use this sort of manipulation, and not only romantic relationships to get whatever they are out of friendship. This is frequently implemented to plant the seeds of guilt, compassion, and guilt towards themselves within the victim. There will be no singing le clue to the friend in this scenario as to whether or not they are being manipulated. Because of this impact, the victim may not usually be able to understand why they may feel or behave towards the so-called' friend' in some manner.
 


 
Covert emotional manipulation also is seen at play in the professional world. Since the beginning of time, employees have raised the issue of having certain superiors who have made them at one time or the other, feel a certain unexplainable feeling of fear, duty or overall guilt. Due to these professionals' busy nature, they are often oblivious as to the reason these feelings exist within them and where they seem to originate from.
 


 
The most delicate situation we will discuss is the dynamic family scenario. This is an extremely difficult situation since they share blood because one could never suspect a family member. Being manipulated by one's own flesh and blood usually has serious server outcomes for a victim because of the level and intensity they are likely to be influenced by. We are asking ourselves how these manipulators succeed in inculcating such extreme amounts of control over their victims? Usually this is seen to be implemented using a number of otherwise diabolical tactics that are difficult to identify and difficult to withstand.
 


 
One such tactic is known as the love bombing tactic. This put simply is merely the tactic involving the intense, sudden and powerful display of favorable feelings towards their victim. It is essential to remember that manipulators generally deploy this tactic at the beginning of their communication with their victims. This tactic seems a little odd when you actually think about it. This is because an individual who intends to harm their victim is not anticipated to be intensively positive at first. Well, if it is to serve their own selfish interest, why not? The theory behind this is quite easy because its main aim is to generate an otherwise intense impression of affection, trust, and compliance for the manipulator within a victim. The extent to which love bombing is used as well as the person on which it will often be used relies on whether the manipulators assess the situation. What am I going to mean here? Take a person, for example, who seems to be very desperate, hopeless and solitary. The manipulator is more likely to choose this person as his victim as he is conscious that, as opposed to their more fulfilled counterparts, they will be extremely receptive to him... Two very important things may be learned from the above definition above. Two very important lessons about covert emotional manipulation can be seen to be introduced to us.
 


 
The first lesson is the flawless nature and use of covert emotional manipulation. If let’s say someone to harm another person, might tell you “this person was really good to me. We should all hang out together sometime “how could you be able to release this as a type of love bombing at first glance? This is basically any particular negative outcome that is more often than not presented in the most positive ways. 
 


 
The second lesson we derive from this is that emotional stealth manipulation can be presented in distinct ways depending on the victim's specific position. For this, a qualified manipulator with some experience is best suited as they understand the ideal timing of how and when to deploy this method in any specified situation. Let's look at an instance of this being used on a daily basis. Normally, when provided with donations and presentations at events, whether it's birthday parties, commitment parties, etc. Someone inexperienced will attempt to use this without knowing exactly they are doing and failing even before they actually started. They are supposed to know the extent to which his victim is likely to respond to certain techniques more than others.
 


 
Another technique to this is known as imminent positive reinforcement. This is a technique that usually involves controlling a victim without them having any knowledge of that. This is generally the flow of activities from love bombing, directly followed by positive reinforcement then finally intermittent positive reinforcement. Why is this so? Love bombing has the purpose of lowering the victim’s defenses, which increases their reliance on the person manipulating them. This sets the dream of a positive relationship or friendship. Another tactic often employed by the manipulator is known as triangulation. This is an effective tactic in the arsenal of a manipulator in which he creates a relationship between you, him or her, and some other third party... The main goal of this is to make a victim feel somewhat uncertain about the relationship, leading the victim to have an intense love for the manipulator that just makes them stay together for a longer period of time talking about an old lover they had, or just bringing up someone they often meet randomly at the gym. Their primary interest is in generating insecurity for their victims. If you create subtle, unfavorable comparisons between you and the outside individual, it makes it much worse. They will deny interest in the other person if you confront them and tell you that the real problem is your insecurity or low self-esteem. Where did you hear before that? It is not unusual for the manipulator to treat the other person as his next destination while using him conveniently.
 


 
Another devious tactic used to deploy covert mind control is known as insinuating. The primary objective of this is to create a victim feel somewhat unsure about the relationship, leading the victim to have an intense love for the manipulator that just makes them remain together for a longer period of time speaking about an ancient friend they had, or just bringing up someone they often meet randomly at the gym. Their main interest is to magnify their victim's insecurity. It makes it much worse if you generate subtle, unfavorable comparisons between you and the person outside... Your partner smiles as an example and says, "What do you know? As a prostitute, you could make a lot of money!” After having sex with him. He'll tell you when you ask him that he meant it as a compliment. But for a long time to come, you're going to wonder what he really meant. You may wonder why your partner when he was in bed with you was thinking about prostitutes; why he understands so much about prostitution in the first location; what he really believes about you; and how much you should put on the bill that you are tempted to give him. And you'll also wonder if he'd just compliment you on how great, as he told a lover, he believes you're. Such remarks will work on you and provide the fuel for plenty of resentment, future arguments, and relationship insecurity.              
 


 
Positive reinforcement is the next step engaged in the search for love bombing. This can be described as the general behavioral switch whereby the specific manipulator does not attempt to show any unconditional positivity towards the victim. He does this until the victim performs the required conduct. Maybe an instance will shed some light on this issue. If a manipulative guy begins to court this lovely woman, let's say, he meets in a coffee shop. If he wishes this woman to call him regularly, all he has to do is demonstrate that he has no more immediate impression, which leads her to call him to fulfill his wish. He will only exhibit a positive reaction when this happens. The victim will be in such a deep psychological manipulative trap that they won’t be able to tell if that the positivity is being used against them. All these are all factors that make the victim subservient to the manipulator's wishes to experience the good feeling that is available on offer.
 


 













 
CHAPTER EIGHT: FAVOURITE VICTIMS OF MANIPULATORS
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
Behavioral traits
 


 
Manipulators are often socially withdrawn individuals who have a macabre notion of what human relationships usually work. The main form of connections with others with the intention of using them for their own personal gain. Who can then be said to be the preferred victims for these manipulators? Manipulators often tend to be drawn to two particular sets of individuals. The first group is those who desire some certain level of love and those in relationships. Love is universal. Love is universal. It is an instinctively desired primordial emotion. We are designed for love as human beings.               
 


 
We love and feel loved. We love. No one is as happy as a man or a woman in love who knows that they are in exchange loved. Some people work together for procreation. Some people squat to deny social pressure. Some even foster the alliance of powerful families. However, the main reason for relationships is love. It is easy to degrade things to the point when love is used as a negotiating chip for more power over another person. And this is where dark psychological elements come to play. You heard the saying "use what you're supposed to get.” This kind of thinking comes with the terrain in the business world. But in relationships, manipulation is called. Let’s look at this example. A woman knows she is sexually attractive and irresistible to her partner. Maybe there's been something she wanted from him for a long time, but despite long discussions, she couldn't achieve her willingness to comply.              
 


 
Let's say what she always wanted of him is his physical contribution to the house's work. His stubborn position leads her to devise a way of making her partner compliant. She has to do it without saying anything like "vacuum the living area or there will be no sex tonight." Although this has been known to happen in some houses, it would certainly backfire especially if you deal with people who are not naturally fond of being instructed by others regardless of how well it is phrased. She bids her time instead. She hangs on him when she finds him in the middle of a random chore. She gives him sweet praises and says things like how she finds him so appealing when she does and then she indulges in her sexual longing. The impact of this tactic is even greater if he usually "work" to excite her. If she does this consistently, he subconsciously receives the message that he could do homework for good sex afterward.              
 


 
Over time, he is programmed to do the work that his partner naturally refused because of sexual motivation. This is a harmless scenario. But dark psychology has been used here if you observe closely. The man was manipulated for sex to do things, though willingly. She understood and played her strength to get what she wanted. The good thing is that everyone is happy in this case. Because the woman gets her partner's valuable contribution, and the man gets the sex he wants with a woman he desires. But when it comes to dark psychology, things are not always mutually beneficial. For the victim, this can get really dark. Let’s look at this other pair. I'd call this new Dave and Maya couple. Dave and Maya have very contrasting characters. Dave is a housemate and Maya is a lively extrovert with many friends. On the surface, it seems that their personality differences perfectly complement each other. Dave felt that he needed to exercise more control of Maya. But he knows (probably because he's tried it already) that he can't use full force to get what he wants. Therefore, he starts a campaign to get Maya under his thumb.
 


 
He begins with picking small details about her like her choice in clothing, make-up and hair and of course, makes snide remarks about her weight in love. This affects her trust and when she brings up her friends, she uses flimsy events to illustrate and back up her theory of fictional feuds. These small seeds of doubt grow and thrive to a coin that further divides Maya and her friends. Because of her newly found lack of confidence, she feels that Dave is the only one who really cares about and accepts her for whom she is.This makes Dave want to do all she can to put her exactly where he wants her to be... under his thumb and totally under his control. In both cases, we see instances in which relationships supposed to be between the two involved people become a way to fulfill a partner's wishes by manipulation and disappointment. Both relations began with good intentions and, although for both parties, the end result of the former was satisfactory, it was the opposite in the later story.              
 


 
The similarities here are that all the victims did what they did for their partners. Therefore, our desire to be loved can make us vulnerable. It can be manipulated and used for other people's gains. The other group of people that manipulators tend to have an affinity towards is those who seem to have strong religious beliefs. Those overly religious people so to speak are usually seen to follow their teachings devotedly without question. No matter what faith you practice, there is a fact that sometimes our faith creates a blind spot that distorts reality and causes us to decide that if we were in our right and proper state of mind, we probably would not. But let's see why before we get into what. When I spoke in a previous chapter about vulnerability, I said that what makes us human makes us vulnerable and vulnerable to dark psychology machinations. These influences are obvious to some people than to others. Even the earliest civilization precedes our belief in deities.              
 


 
Man has always viewed his existence as a small part of the universal scheme of things, so we believe there are greater, larger, and more divine forces. If you looked at things logically, it made sense because it helped our minds deal with the inexplicable things around us. You see a beautiful flower and wonder how exquisite and delicate something can be... without thinking or pattern.              We look at the great expanse of heaven and wonder what lies beyond. Is it going forever? Or does it simply tap into an endless end?
 


 
When you listen to the powerful roar of the waterfall or the sound of a thunder blast, we are still terrified in fear and amazement even with the progress and knowledge that we have. At that time your choices were either to let fear make you foolish or to streamline the situation by putting it on a sovereign being that is greater than you. Some of the braver people chose science to explain them. Staying with this same line of thinking, we are forced to face our own mortality if someone we love dies. Our sorrow is compounded by life and death questions. Is the journey here finishing or continues into the afterlife? This was a strong motivating force behind today's beliefs. The fear and consideration given to live following this life led many people to make "right choices" here so that when death comes, the life we hope will continue. It is our way to speak manipulate the final result because the alternative, as it has been depicted, is so grim. Some people take our fear of the afterlife to manipulate us for what they want. If we hold this theory of the afterlife so highly, you can imagine how we treat people who are considered as mouthpieces of the deities who control the afterlife. Pastors, imams, rabbis, and all other religious leaders are so reverent that God concerned words are regarded as the words.              
 


 
These religious leaders are generally intended to apply morally sound principles in accordance with their respective offices and act in the best interest of their members. If not, at least for any other reason, to promote the principles of faith which they claim to represent. This is not always the case, however, as we have come to understand. Many religious leaders abuse their roles and influence by deceiving their members to make decisions that serve only their egotistical agenda. The common practice is that the name of the main deity twists the words drawn from the sacred manual of religion to mean new things that confirm whatever the story they tell to help them manipulate the people successfully. Many people have been swindled, physically hurt and even committed atrocious crimes. Another method these false leaders use is to claim that they have a vision or spiritual insight into a certain need for the victim.              
 


 
They create a complex story that is a mix of lies interwoven with the trust and the main objective is to extortion the victim for money, favor or power play only. Some victims are forced to divide more money than they could ever expect. In some cases, impressive young victims are brainwashed in fear in occult situations. But such scenarios don't just end in religious houses. There are people who don't belong to any religion but want to be spiritually open. These people are fake psychics and mediums who claim to have a strong relationship with the Netherworld. Again, our attachment to dead people and our concerns about what happens after death cloud our judgments and open us up to crooks who would manipulate the situation to their advantage. They use the same trick of false religious leaders to manipulate their victims with disappointment and lies. Victims take a 10-minute psychic reading of their horoscopes and palms to keep their promises, changed realities and false expectations for years. That they spend thousands and thousands of dollars on the search for the elusive "truth." People who hope for science are not immune to manipulation. You cannot be influenced. Think again because your faith is anchored in a legible and factual science.              
 


 
When there is a crisis, people come back to what they trust. You naturally turn to science for a scientist. Some people with a weakening health condition are looking for unconventional medicine to survive the disease. As they know that the best of conventional medicine has failed, they turn to those outliers who claim to have the solution for their experimental medications and never have been done before. These procedures are unfortunately too risky, too costly and often uninsured. But every penny is worth the slim chance of life, and this is what the fraudulent people exploit. And it's not only in crisis. You have found wonderful solutions to amass problems like loss of weight and so forth. You argue that your latest dietary fad, pill or technology can transform us using scientific theories not tested and verified. Many people purchase this transformation promise based on information specially manipulated for extorting victims.              
 


 
The main difference between religious leaders and these false science suppliers is that they use science in swindling their victims instead of a deity. And sadly, most people don't realize how badly they are affected until it’s too late. When it comes to faith, those who use and exploit the dark key to their deepest needs use the sacred thing to manipulate your thinking process. And sometimes it doesn't really matter the sacredness. As long as it is important to you, they regard it as some sort of gold mine. And there is no greater time for me or anyone to speak than when this person experiences a crisis. This is because, in your moment of crisis, you are at your weakest and most influential and people know how to handle things for their own benefit.
 


 













 
CHAPTER NINE: DECEPTION
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
What is Deception
 


 
The definition is a theme that usually resonates within the spectrum of dark psychology. Throughout the years, it has been defined as any particular act used by a particular manipulative individual to instill certain beliefs within the victim that are usually false in nature or only those possessing partial truths. It is usually placed in the same category as deceit, mystification and suffrage. Deception is not usually an easy theme to understand since it involves many different things like distractions, propaganda camouflage, and concealment. The manipulator is often able to easily control the subject's mind since the victim is often led to placing immense trust in this particular manipulative individual. The victims often believe in whatever the manipulator will say, and might even be basing future plans and shaping their world base on the things that the manipulator is feeding their subconscious mind. This strong element of trust towards the manipulator can quickly fade away once the victim realizes what is going on. Because of this very reason, a certain level of skill is needed for deployment of this theme, since only then will a manipulator be able to skillfully change the focus of suspicion towards him and onto the victims' paranoia.
 


 
In most cases, deception will often present itself in relationship settings and lead the victim to have dominant feelings of distrust and betrayal between the partners in the relationship. This usually happens because deception is a theme that violates most of the rules of most relationships, together with having a negative influence on the expectations that come with the relationship. When getting into relationships, one of the things that are usually expected is the ease of having an honest and truthful conversation with their partner at all times. If the then learns that one of them is beginning to show signs of deception, they might have to learn the different ways of using misdirection and distractions to pry out reliable and truthful information that they need from them. The trust would have gone into a permanent rift that will not be easy to come back from since the victim will always be questioning everything that the partner will say and do wondering whether the story is actually true of fabricated. Most relationships will end as soon as the deceptive partner is found out.
 


 
As we described earlier, this is a form of communication that relies on lies and certain omissions to make the victim believe whatever he is being led to believing by the deceptive individual. As this the case, there are five main types of deceptive tactics that exist. We shall briefly touch on each one to better understand this theme.
 


 
Concealments
 


 
Probably taking home the medal of most used type of deception, concealment is basically when the deceptive individual knowingly omits information from his stories that are often relevant and important to the context .they can also engage in certain behaviors that would signal to hide of relevant information to the subject at that particular time. A skilled manipulator is experienced enough to know that he will have to be clever to know that it’s safe not to be directly in their approach, but rather insinuate the lie leading the victim to their own conclusion which is predetermined.
 


 
Exaggeration
 


 
What can be said about this? This is where an individual in a sense stretches the truth a bit too much with an intended goal of leading the story towards a direction that best caters to their needs. The manipulator will make a certain scenario appear to be more severe than it actually is to avoid lying directly to their victims. This is usually done to let the victim do whatever it is, they want.
 


 
Lies
 


 
This is one tactic that we as humans use on a daily basis for one reason or another. We are often inclined to lie as a way to avoid some form of penalty. For example, if you work in the bank and run late because of something minor, you will be inclined to lie to your boss to keep him from cutting you loose. What then can be said to be the meaning of this? This is where an individual gives information that is all south of the actual truth. They will present this completely fabricated truth to the victim and they will believe it.
 


 
Equivocations
 


 
This is where an individual will knowingly make a statement of a contra dictionary nature intended to lead the victim to the path of confusion on what is exactly seems to be going on. This is usually a clever tactic that will allow the manipulator to save his image if he is later discovered.
 


 
Understatements
 


 
This is where an individual minimizes aspects of the truth in the particular story being told at the time. They will often approach a victim preaching how something isn’t that big of a deal when it is of the utmost importance.
 


 
What drives a manipulator to the deployment of the theme of dark psychology? According to research done over the years, there are usually three main things motivating an individual to use deception on others. These three motives are under the umbrella of close relationships. They include self-focused motives, relationship-focused motives and partner-focused motives. Let's look first at the motives focused on the partner. The victim will use deception in this kind of motive to avoid harming the subject or their partner. They may also use deception to protect the relationship between the victim and an outside third party, avoid worrying about something about the subject, or keep the subject's self-esteem intact. Such motivation for deception will often be seen as both relationally beneficial and socially polite.
 


 
Next is deception's self-focused motive. This one is not considered as noble as the first one and is therefore considered more inferior to the other techniques.              Rather than worrying about the victim and how they feel, the manipulator will simply think about how they feel and their own self-image. The manipulator uses deception to protect or enhance their own self-image in this motive. To shield the victim from criticism, embarrassment, or anger, this form of deception is used.
 


 
Finally, we shall look at the relationship-focused motive of deception. The manipulative individual will use this deception to limit any harm that could come to the relationship simply by avoiding the trauma and conflict of relationships. This form of deception sometimes helps the relationship, depending on the situation. It may be the cause of harming the relationship because it will make things more complicated. For example, if you choose to hide how you feel about supper because you don't want to get into a fight, the relationship might be helpful. On the other hand, if you have an affair and choose to keep this information to yourself, it will only complicate things in the end.
 













 
Primary components of deception
 


 
 
As much as it may be a bit difficult to clarify which factors show clear deployment of deception, there are some subtle components that are immediate identifiers of these themes. The victim will come to be aware of these factors only when the manipulator dispatches a direct lie. Let us now dive deep into the particulars of said components.
 


 
Disguise
 


 
The first component we shall unravel is that of disguises. What usually goes on here is that the manipulator works tiredly up to until he successfully creates the impression of being someone that they are not. Manipulators often resort to this tactic if they want to hide something about them so deep that no one ever finds out. This could be a dark secret or just something as harmful as someone’s name. This component's popular belief is that it is simply a change of clothes just like in the moves. However it goes far beyond this in that it also involves a complete change of one's persona. Having a rough idea of how discuses work, let us look at a few examples of how it can be used in the process of deception.
 


 
The first instance is where the manipulator changes himself to another person so as not to be discovered. An individual will do this with a view to maybe be able to get back into a particular crowd of people who are not very fond of him, revamp their whole personality to make someone like them or just to further their own personal goals. In some instances, disguise may be used to refer to the hiding of one’s true nature in the hopes of maybe hiding the effect that appears to be unpopular with that proposal. Disguises usually have adverse effects because it is generally hiding one’s true intentions for a particular victim. When information is withheld in this fashion, it often clouds the victim’s judgment. The victim ends up having the feeling of being in control of their decisions when in reality they have been swayed towards the manipulator's directions. This is seen mainly in a political setting.
 


 
Camouflage
 


 
This is where individual works tirelessly in order to hide the truth in one way or another leaving his victim clueless as to what exactly is going on. This is characterized by the manipulator's use of half-truths when divulging certain information to his victim. The victim will only be aware that camouflage has taken place later when the actual truths are brought to light. A skilled manipulator with a lot of experience using camouflage is more likely to bra undetected in performing certain actions.
 


 
Simulation
 


 
The third component of deception is what is commonly referred to as simulation. This is simply the process where the victim is constantly shown subject matter that is false in every way. Further on, we get to see that simulation consists of 3 other techniques that can be used. They are mimicry, distraction, and fabrication.
 


 
Fabrication is the scenario where the manipulator takes something that is found in actual reality and chafes it to become this completely different thing. The manipulator will seek to either give detailed events that never happened or add some exaggerations that either make it sound better or worse than it actually sounds. The core of their story, however, is usually true. If the teacher gives them a bad grade, these manipulators may further the story by stating that they were given the bad results on purpose. The reality is that the manipulator did not study for the test hence his bad grade.
 


 
Mimicry is another tool that manipulators use when deploying these tactics of deception. The manipulator here usually portrays a persona that is quite close to their own, but not their own. They may present an idea similar to someone else’s and give him credit for thinking about it first. This form of stimulation may be able to take pace through visual and auditory stimuli.
 


 
The last tool we shall look at is that of distraction as another form of simulation in deception. This is where the manipulator tries to get the victim only to focus their attention on everything else but the truth. How is this usually done? This is usually achieved through baiting or the offering of something more tempting than the truth itself. The best example of this is that of a marriage situation. Where the husband is involved in extramarital affairs and thinks that the wife has caught a whiff of this, he may start graving her with random gifts such as designer clothes so as to distract her from thinking about his cheating.th one flaw to this is that it often tends not to last as long as intended.
 













 
Detecting deception
  
 


 
If you may be interested in looking for the rights defenses against deception, then the first thing you would do is have a clear conscience that allows you to detect deception as its being deployed. It may be difficult to determine whether deception is occurring or not. This is of Corse unless the manipulator becomes a bit sloppy in his approach and levees sufficient breadcrumbs showing that he is indeed languor of grips contradiction of statements. As much as it may be difficult for a manipulator to deceive his victim for an extended period of time, it is something that we practice on those closest to us on a daily basis. What makes detection of deception a bit hard is that there are really no solid indicators that are 100% reliable to tell when deception has happened.
 


 
Deception, however, is capable of placing a large burden on the manipulators cognitive functioning as they will have to figure out how to recall the agent's functioning as they will have to figure out how to recall all the statements they made to the subject in order to keep the story credible and consistent. One slips up and the subject can say something is wrong. Due to the strain of keeping the story straight, the agent is much more likely to leak information to tip the subject through either nonverbal or verbal indications. Over time, researchers have given us sufficient reason to believe that detecting an attempt of deception is usually a cognitive, fluid, and complex process. These processes are not usually constant as they will often vary depending on the message that is being relayed. The interpersonal deception theory describes deception to be an iterative and dynamic process of influence between the manipulator, whose sole purpose of this is working towards twisting information to a version that best suits them but is different from the truth, and the victim, who will then attempt to figure out if the message being relayed to them is of an accurate nature or quite the contrary. During this particular exchange, the victim is going to bring to light all the nonverbal and verbal information that will cue the victim into the deceit. At some point in this process, the victim may be able to tell that they are being lied to by the manipulator.
 


 
One of the few renowned scholars of this theme of deception by the name Alert Vrij, his view of the detection of deception. He was of the opinion that there were no known nonverbal behaviors that could be associated with solely with deception. This is one of the many reasons as to why it is not possible to tell when an individual is deceptive. While certain nonverbal behaviors are associated with acts of deception, these same cues may also present themselves when other behaviors are present. This makes it difficult to determine whether or not a manipulator is using deception unless the utter a direct lie. Another scholar who weighed in on this enigmatic theme of detection was Mark Fank. He focused more on how deception can be detected at the victim’s cognitive level. When deception takes place, it usually requires a conscious behavior that is mainly deliberate on the victim's side, so the listening to words and paying attention to the body language that is going on are both critical when trying to determine when someone is in the process of deceiving you. Suppose, for example, a manipulative person asks a question which the victim doesn’t feel comfortable answering directly. In that case, you can tell that they are lying just from how he repeats words a lot, has a very poor structure of logic and generally uses less time talking about that particular question.
 


 
Basically, when attempting to figure out when deception occurs, there are not many signs that can be considered. However, few nonverbal signs may be present when someone deploys this tactic of deception, but they may have other issues like nervousness or shyness.
 


 













 
CHAPTER TEN: MIND GAMES
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
When a person plays “mind games” on us, it is attributed to being innocent. Many people have come across this at some point in their life. Take an example when someone is planning a surprise party and doesn’t want the other person to know and he does this by playing mind tricks in order not to give away what the surprise actually is. This is merely considered innocent and silly. Dark psychology mind games are not in any way innocent. Mind games in dark psychology are attributed to the hypnotist toying with his victim's will power and sanity. This differs from other dark psychological manipulation in the sense that the manipulator is playing with his victim for his own pleasure and enjoyment and is not invested in what the outcome will be. His interest in the victim would be to test the victim so to speak. Mind games are used by a hypnotist when other forms of suggestions to the victim are not effective and may decide to use mind games which are rather less obvious to the audience. The manipulator may decide to use mind games to his own pleasure and amusement. Mind games are very effective in reducing the assuredness and psychological strength of the victim. The victim is eluded into thinking that he still has control. Manipulators are able to satisfy their twisted amusement when playing mind games. Such dark psychological manipulators do not see their victims as equal human beings. Instead, they choose to see the victim as a ‘toy’ and a person who can be manipulated and therefore, watch with amusement when victims do what they tell them to. Sometimes, a dark manipulator will have known mind games all his life and knows no other forms of dark psychology manipulation. These manipulators can be dangerous because they know not of any other option and therefore no need to change and be more humane. Let us dive into the specific types of mind games used by dark manipulators.
 


 
Ultimatum
 


 
An ultimatum can be defined as a final proposition or condition. One, therefore, is presented with a severe choice. They are viewed more as demands other than a request. An example is, “Be more outgoing…or I will see other people”. Certain factors will decide whether an ultimatum will be considered as a mind game. The three factors are one, the type of person giving the ultimatum, second the intention for giving the ultimatum and lastly the nature of the ultimatum.
 


 
Persons who give ultimatums and genuinely care about the persons and have a valid reason for doing so, and then it will fall under the non-dark manipulation. These persons will generally include spouses, parents, siblings or close relatives. However, if they fall into any of the categories mentioned, it does not necessarily rid them of dark intentions from the ultimatum.
 


 
What was the intention of the person giving the ultimatum? People with good intentions are often driven by the desire to help or assist in bettering a person's life. A person gives an ultimatum to stop smoking or drinking too much, then this is seen as good intentions. Being able to tell the intention of an ultimatum is difficult, so looking at the nature of the ultimatum itself is the surest way to tell whether it is dark.
 


 
Dark manipulative ultimatums will involve the person doing something that goes against what they stand for and goes against their self-interest. The victim ends up comprising their moral standards in the process. Manipulators test their victims to see how far they go in compromising what they believe in. As we have seen, non-dark ultimatums are usually to benefit another person and they do not have to go against what they know is wrong.
 


 
What is a dark psychological ultimatum? The person giving the ultimatum will be a friend, a boss or a person with who the victim is in a toxic relationship with. It could also the form of a spouse, a parent or a sibling. The manipulator will often give ultimatums that go against the victim’s moral conviction or possibly be dangerous to the victim. Here, the dark manipulator will notice a disinclination towards something and take advantage of this to make their victim do their bidding.
 


 
An example will be a girl who is not comfortable in wearing costumes or revealing clothes. Some of the ultimatums will be, “It’s an only costume party, it is either you wear one or you are not invited.” Some ultimatums lead to harm to others such as assault and even murder. In very extreme cases, the victim ends up taking his own life in completing a suicide pact in which the manipulator does not honor his end.
 


 
The External Break up
 


 
Everybody likes to be in a relationship where there is that sense of security and knowing that your partner is content. A manipulator will know this but will use these for their dark intentions. A manipulator will ensure that their partner will be powerless by instigating feelings of instability, and negativity within their relationship. This technique of  ‘The External Break up’ is often deployed in a romantic relationship. It manifests itself when a partner continuously to scares the other that he or she will leave them. This is aimed at creating feelings of anxiety and instability within the relationship. This mind game takes the form of promised breakups, implied breakups and actual breakups that do not happen.
 


 
Implied breakups are those that are not expressly stating the words ‘break up’. Instead, the manipulator throws hints there and then to create some doubt in the partner’s mind. They can do this by making statements that exclude their partner from future plans together. Promised breakups happen where the dark manipulator scares their partner that they instead to break up with them somewhere in the near future. Words like, “Don’t worry I won't have to deal with this anymore because I’ll be leaving soon” show the intention of a breakup in the future. Promise breakups fall in between the implied breakups and the actual breakups. Where the dark manipulator mentions the idea of cutting ties with their partner, either by divorcing, separating or breaking up, but does not follow through then it calls under the promised breakup.
 


 
The actual break is the most severe compared to the implied and promised breakups. It happens when the manipulator decides to leave their victim without actually leaving in the end. They may pack up their clothes and belongings in an attempt to leave but once they see the sadness all over their victim’s face, they decide otherwise.
 


 
After understanding the tactic of the “external break up” we ask ourselves what therefore is the end game for manipulator when they use this tactic? The manipulator aims to have the upper hand in the relationship by creating feelings of uncertainty and lack of security from the victim's life and therefore reducing their power in the hands of the manipulator. By repeatedly simulating a breakup with the victim, the manipulator tries to test the waters of how far one will go in putting up with being treated like a toy. In the end, when the manipulator gives in to the victims’ begging for the relationship to continue, they make themselves look like the generous ones. This works so well for the manipulator because his or her victim is not thinking rationally to figure out why the relationship should end. They are therefore willing to continue with the relationship. Many people do not understand this concept of dark psychology and why a person would want to continue to be in a relationship with a dark manipulator in the first place. The impact of this on the victim includes the likelihood of developing serious trust issues where they will have a hard time trusting another person. This could take a toll on the victim’s professional relationships and family relationships as well. After a long period of constant threats, the victims become almost like a slave to the manipulator. The manipulator eventually grows tired and moves on to their next prey.
 


 
Hard to get
 


 
And just like ultimatums, the hard to get tactic can easily pass off as being normal. Hard to get can be dark as it can be also harmless and normal. Hard to get when it is harmless. It occurs when a person will want to make them seem trying to be with them is not as easy. They will do this by making themselves less available by not making to every date and leaving the phone to ring a couple of times before finally picking up. The ‘hard to get’ dark psychology is much riskier. The manipulator will use this tactic during the relationship rather than at the beginning of the relationship. Unlike the innocent hard to get where the intention is to be in a happy relationship eventually, dark psychology hard is far from taking into account the victim's wellbeing. When used at the beginning of the relationship it is innocent because no expectations are infringed. At this point, no one is dependent or reliant on either of the person, so no harm comes from playing hard to get.
 


 
Further along in a relationship when things are going on well then suddenly a person is unreliable and often times tries to make themselves busy. This kind of behavior is not normal because relationships are about making and spending time with each other as this will firm up the relationship. A manipulator will be very cunning and start pulling away when their partner is already reliant on them. The victim will therefore put an extra effort into reconnecting with their partner. In the end, the manipulator has the upper hand and will use this power to his or her own purpose while the victim is left in deep confusion and instability.
 


 













 
CHAPTER ELEVEN: HOW TO DEFEND YOURSELF FROM PERSUASION AND MANIPULATION
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
We are indeed human at the end of the day. It is because of this very reason that we get to dwell a lot on the opinion of others in everything that we do. We always desire and adore getting validation from others so that we can subconsciously decide whether or not we shall be depressed.in this age of the millennial. The norm has become to just brag about their wealth on social media. A lot of these bragging is often than not the truth. This ultimately leads to one having a loose relationship with reality. The self-deception of this type can dig deep into the human spicy, that a victim of these may one day wake up and realize that their perfect world is only existent within their maids. Depression will closely follow suit. The first step to attempting to defend yourself from persuasion and manipulation is confronting the situation and taking the stance of breaking off any illusions you may have. You will not be able to proceed normally with your life. You have to be wary of the fact that you are in control of your own choices. Then make the conscious choice of seeing things for what they are. That deal, which seems too good to be true, could actually be just that... too good to be true. The other thing you should follow is to trust your instincts definitely. There are times that a lie has been told to you in the most skilled way imaginable, that you will end up believing. But you can feel an imbalance on some instinctive level between what should be, what is, and then what is being projected onto you. There may be no physical signs to show that hey, something is wrong, but you feel something is wrong. The next important thing when you ask questions is to listen to the responses. This may sound somewhat unbelievable because you'll listen to the answers. The truth is that our self-disappointment can make us choose the answers we receive. We tell ourselves that we listen, but we only pay attention to the answers we want to hear rather than the answers we receive. You may have broken the illusions around you, but some of you are still clinging to the comfort of those illusions. The pain of confronting the situation would prevent you from listening to the real answers to your questions.
 


 
Actual listening requires a certain sense of detachment, but this time around not from reality. You have to get rid of your emotions. Your detachment from our emotions would lead you to the next step, which would logically process the new information. It can complicate situations more than they already are to act irrationally. It makes your exit strategy so difficult to let all the emotions simmer and spring to the surface. When you face the truth, the irrational part of you may want you to let it all go hell. Your rightly justified anger can inspire you to take steps to calm your emotions in the short term. But you may come to regret these actions in the long term. I’m not saying that you should deny your emotions; I'm not saying that you do not act on these emotions. First deal with the situations and later deal with your emotions.
 


 
Act quickly
 


 
It’s great that you have come to terms with the reality of things. But defense against these dark manipulative tactics entails so much more. While attempting to defend you from the claws of these manipulators is often intense and exhilarating at first. This intensity of these emotions may cause one to slide into denial slowly. The more you delay in taking any action is usually what accelerates the onset of this denial, and when it happens, there are high chances that you might relapse and end up getting trapped in the same web. This can be avoided by taking action immediately. You realize that someone is trying to manipulate you. This can present itself in the simplest of ways. When informing a close friend of some reality of the particular situation may be all that’s needed so set in motion a series of events that will eventually lead to your freedom. You should know that the fabric of illusion is made from a tougher material than glass after choosing to act. The illusion could work its way back into your heart with your emotions in high gear by using fragments of your emotions to fix it. When a liar is caught in a lie, he or she may attempt to recruit others to enforce that lie when they feel that they are no longer holding you. A deceptive partner with whom you have recently broken things off would at this point try to use the other mutual relationships in your life to change your mind. If you want to get out of this unscathed, you will need both your logic and instincts. Although the truth of the situation is that when you discover that you've been lied to consistently, you become emotionally scarred. Hence, the issue of leaving the situation unscathed becomes silent. However, priority should be given to take the route that allows you to leave this toxic situation without harming yourself further. You’re all over the place emotionally. Rage, anger, hurt, and deception is the iceberg's tip. But logically, you need to think. Keep your head above the water and warn yourself.
 


 
Get help fast
 


 
When other people's manipulations trap you, confusion is one of the emotions you'd experience. This helps cloud your rational thinking and leaves you feeling helpless. You might even question the reality of what you are facing at this point.              It will lead to denial if you continue to entertain these doubts. You’re probably going to want to conclude you've got the whole situation wrong. That you misunderstood some things and came to the wrong conclusion, such thinking would drive back to the manipulator's arms. Resist the urge to give in by receiving a second opinion. People go to another doctor in a health crisis to get a second opinion. This is to remove any iota of doubt about the first diagnosis you may have and affirm the best treatment course for you.
 


 
Similarly, getting another person's opinion can help you discern the truth of the situation and what might be your next steps. Just remember, it's better to go to someone who has proved countless times they're interested in your best. The next step is to confront the perpetrator if you have the help you need. For this, I suggest you choose the scene or location. Choose a place you know that gives you the upper hand. On your part, that would require some careful planning. If the perpetrator exists in the cyber world, especially if the person swindled you of your money, you would have to involve the police and the relevant authorities. Do some of your own investigations so as to ascertain the truth. After you face the perpetrator and take the necessary steps to get out of the situation, you must quickly start the healing process.
 


 
The scale and gravity to which you were hurt, manipulated or abused do not matter. You must be able to walk past it and wait until you can "heal" your wounds, rather than sitting on your couch and reliving the past. Time would give you enough distance from your experience, but it would be almost never healing for emotional scars if you learned something from this book. If you don't do anything about it, an unhealthy scab could form over the wound, which would make you as vulnerable if not more than you had experienced. Speak to a counselor, attend therapy, and participate in facilitating the healing process, whatever you choose to do. It won't happen overnight, but you are sure that you get closer to improving every day and every step you take in therapy.
 


 
 


 
Trust your instincts
 


 
While your brain interprets signals based on facts, logic, and sometimes experience, your heart works in the opposite direction by screening information through an emotional filter. The only thing that picks up vibrations is your gut instinct, which neither the heart nor the brain can pick on. And if you can groom to the point where you recognize your inner voice and are trained to react to it, you will lower your chances of being seduced by people trying to work on you with their manipulative will. To begin with, it's hard to recognize this voice. And that's because we allowed voices of doubt, self-discrimination, and the critics ' loud voices within and without drowning out our authentic voice over the course of our lives. Your survival depends on this voice or instinct. So, trust that your brain neurons can still process things in your immediate vicinity when it kicks in.              
 


 
Some people call it intuition, and some refer to it as instinct, especially when it comes to relationships; they are undoubtedly the same. You must accept that it may not always make logical sense to start trusting your instincts. If you've ever been in the middle of doing something and experienced the feeling of being watched all of a sudden, then you know what I mean. You don't have eyes at the back of your head; there's no one else with you in the room, but you get the tiny shiver running down your spine and the "sudden knowledge" you're watching. That’s what I'm talking about. The first step to connect with your instinct is to decode your mind with the voices you've let in.              With meditation, you can do this. Forget the chatter of, "he said, she said." Concentrate on your center. You are the voice you know. Next, be careful about your thoughts. Don’t just throw away the eclectic monologs in your head. Rather go with the thoughts flow.
 


 
Why do you think of a certain person in some way? How do you feel so deeply about this person, even if you only knew each other for a few days? What’s that nagging feeling about this other person that you have? You get more tuned to your intuition as you explore your thoughts and understand when your instincts kick and how to react to it. You may need to learn to take a step back to pause and think if you are the kind of person who prefers to make spur decisions at the moment. This moment in which you pause allows you to really reflect on your decisions and evaluate them. The next part is a hard part and many people couldn't follow it. Unfortunately, you can't skip or navigate around this step. This part has to do with trust. You need to be open to the idea of trusting yourself and trusting others to be able to trust your instinct. Your failure to trust others would just make you paranoid, and it's not your instincts that kick when you're paranoid.              It's the fear of you. Fear tends to turn every molehill into a hill. You must let go of your fear, embrace confidence, and let that lead in your new relationships. You are better able to hear the voice inside without the roadblocks put up by fear in your mind. Finally, your priorities need to be re-evaluated. If your mind is at the forefront of money and material possessions, you may not be able to see the past. Any interaction you have with people would be interpreted as people trying to take advantage of you, and if you dwell on that frequently enough, it will soon become your reality. You know how you attract into your life what you think of. If you're constantly thinking about material wealth, you're only going to attract people who think like you. Using this as a guide, look at all your relationships with this new hindsight; the old, the new, and the perspective. Don’t enter a relationship that expects to be played. Be open when you approach them, whether it's a business relationship, a romantic relationship or even a regular acquaintance. You can get the right feedback about them from your intuition. Do not step into this thinking, too, that your gut will tell you to run in the opposite direction when you meet suspect people.
 


 













 
CONCLUSION
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Hypnosis is in a psychological state when an individual loses his or her will to do things willingly, thus subscribing to a hypnotist's orders. We've found that hypnosis is actually true and not stories or films we saw on television. It can either be verbally or nonverbally suggested in two types. The tactics of a manipulator can take the form of verbal or non-verbal suggestions. Compared to nonverbal, verbal recommendations are more difficult because the hypnotist's words could be innocent and familiar.
 


 
An instance is a hypnotizer who wanted to cause suicidal thoughts by wrapping it up in phrases like,' You will go to an art gallery to enjoy art and death.' A hypnotist can use silent indications. This is accomplished by the body's language, including the posture of the body, facial expressions and gestures, and the hypnotics. Some individuals are more inclined to follow the suggestions of the hypnotist. Vulnerability to hypnotism can be triggered lately by some life-changing accounts. NLP technology includes individuals with authority to manipulate individuals. Anchoring is a form of NLP technique that uses external stimuli and links hypnotisms to a certain emotional state. Finally, the technique of future pace that includes the hypnotic person taking a victim to an appalling place, his future.
 


 
We distinguish persuasion from dark persuasion and try to alter how an individual believes. Persuasion can be positive, such as a police officer who tries to speak to an individual holding a weapon. Positive persuasion seeks to save an individual. Then there is a dark conviction, which has no moral foundation. In comparison, the process of doing an activity that harms the individual is defined as dark persuasion. Positive conviction leads to the convinced advantage and benefits for the persuader too. It ends in some beneficial action overall. Dark persuasion always helps the persuader, and the persuaded ends up doing something that harms him and harms third parties in certain cases. As well as A dark persuader is often a narcissist or a sociopath. Tactics used to include a dark persuader who friends and trusts his victim. In this way, they wouldn't see (the lengthy con) coming, and the convincer would take measures gradually with the victim the Dark Persuader is a specialist at (gradually) and the dark persuader would disguise his real motives from their victims by providing two applications in a row and using reserve psychology (masking real motives). Control of the mind may go undetected and this type is deadly. This makes it difficult for anyone under this control to object in any manner. Undetected mind controllers are not often as dark and often cowardly manipulators. Only after much consideration do you do so. The methods used by unrecognized mind control devices are to choose someone who wants to be their victim because he or she is more prone to unrecognized mind control. In this case the dark persuader discovers what the victim needs and takes advantage of it. Another is the restrictive selection method that requires the dark persuader to take away anything that a person has in relation to a case while making sure that the person thinks that he has controlled all the time. Media mind control (sound) is the art of sound, which controls an excellent instance of a person's mind, music in a restaurant that prompts clients to order wine from that nation and finally manipulate an individual with pictures. The control of the mind becomes an obsession or a real interest, at least. It will be one of those things you want to constantly test and master.  Not as important as before. Once you begin to "think a level," you will rise above the turbulence, compulsions, and desires that have first encouraged you to know how to control the thoughts and actions of others. The result: a calmness that puts things in a clear perspective. Your initial obsession with mind and power will be discovered, and your next desire will be to see how skillfully you can practice this strength. In the end, as the tranquillity surrounds you that real energy brings, your goal is to see how little effort is required to achieve what you want. Power is a tool, nothing more. As we try to raise ourselves above them, the true persuaders of our behavior will remain our fears, vanities, and appetites. Believing anything else embraces Pollyanna's simplicity and denies our origins as livestock. 
 


 
People attribute too playful and stupid' mind games' like attempting to surprise somebody without giving away the surprise. In the dark globe of psychology, mind games are not near to innocent, like teasing. In dark psychology, a mind game connotes the manipulator's drive to play with the health and the victim's strength. The manipulator plays with health and wants his victim's authority for his own pleasure and pleasure. Specific kinds of intellectual games include ultimatums which reflect a requirement. Whether an ultimatum constitutes psychology relies on the ultimatum's purpose, the individual who gives the ultimatum and the ultimatum nature. The internal rupture is another mind-game strategy used by manipulators, which takes the form of threats that end a connection. It is used in a romantic environment and creates fear. The difficult of understanding the mental game of dark psychology should not be confused with the ordinary game difficult to come to where the female wants the effort to be worth it most times. Dark difficult to get uses when a couple has had a relationship and often happens when the handler begins to pull, so his or her partner makes more efforts to save what he or she believes is a failed relationship.
 


 
There is, unfortunately, no certain way to know what another person thinks, and the best thing a person can do is try to take control and understand their thoughts and remain true to what they trust because the heart of the man hides his true purposes. It is true that we can do excellent evil, but also the ability to do excellent good. There may have been someone who has betrayed you in the past, it may have been your best friend, friend or even family, but that doesn't mean you have to obsess it and stick to the past.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
BOOK 6
 


 
Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
1
: THE REAL NARCISSIST
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 













 
Who is a Narcissist
 


 
Narcissism depends on the character of Narcissus. A narcissist is basically somebody who exhibits the characteristics of narcissism. He, or she, has all the earmarks of being so enamored with himself that he can't adore any other person. They are absolutely self–assimilated and will, in general, consider themselves to be great. Narcissism, as the name implies, is a disorder of the personality which is characterized by self-importance and outrageous selfishness. Individuals with narcissism show practices that would be depicted as prideful, proud, and vainglorious. Their conduct is frequently pompous (signifying "greater" or "overwhelming," i.e., flashy and extreme) and exceptionally selfish, with an overstated sense of self-significance. They are usually called haughty and self-focused.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists exploit others, utilizing them, or abusing them to meet their own needs. A narcissist will consume discussions. The person in question disparages individuals that they feel aren't tantamount to them. Narcissists have a solid sense of privilege, which makes them feel they merit extraordinary treatment. On the off chance that they don't get that extraordinary treatment, they will, in general, become fretful or blow up, in some cases flying into anger. Narcissists consider themselves to be better and need their ways of life than a mirror that in spite of their financial section. Frequently living past what they can bear, a narcissist needs "the best" of everything: they demand to have the best vehicles, the best houses, the best athletic or nation club, and having their youngsters go to the best schools. They can't empathize with others or put themselves "from another person's perspective." They are just mindful of their own emotions and don't see how others may feel. A narcissist experiences issues dealing with analysis as they have to consider themselves to be great. The individual in question is so presumptuous and self-focused that individuals regularly don't care to associate with them.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists accept they are superior to anything others and will become a close acquaintance with just those in their status gathering or those that luxurious applause and appreciation on them. They are miserable except if they are encompassed by other people who laud or appreciate them. A person with narcissism frantically looks for consistent applause and profound respect. The unordinary contort is that they couldn't care less in the event that they are loved, just inasmuch as they are respected.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists will, in general, have high self-esteem. Notwithstanding, narcissism isn't simply something very similar esteem; individuals who have high self-esteem are regularly modest, while narcissists infrequently are. It was once believed that narcissists have high self-esteem superficially, yet where it counts, they are insecure. The most recent proof shows that narcissists are really secure or vainglorious at the two levels. Spectators may induce that instability is there in light of the fact that narcissists will, in general, be guarded when their self-esteem is compromised (e.g., being scorned); narcissists can be forceful. The occasionally perilous way of life may all the more by, and largely reflect sensation-chasing or impulsivity (e.g., risky sex, intense money related choices)
 


 
 
 













 
Characteristics of Narcissism
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Believes that the person in question is superior to other people
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Fantasizes about force, achievement or allure
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Exaggerates accomplishments or abilities
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Expects consistent applause and appreciation
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Believes they are exceptional and acts likewise
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Fails to perceive others' feelings and emotions
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Expects others to oblige their thoughts and plans naturally
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Takes preferred position of others
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Express scorn for those that they feel is mediocre compared to them.
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Jealous of others
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Believe that others are envious of them.
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Trouble keeping sound connections
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Setting ridiculous objectives
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Easily hurt and effectively feel dismissed.
 


 
 
 


 
•
       
Have delicate self-esteem
 


 
 
 













 
Signs You're Dealing with a Narcissist
 


 
With regards to deciding if somebody you know is a narcissist, a great many people make it more entangled than it should be. There are no evident blood tests, MRIs, or careful conclusions that can recognize narcissism. Indeed, even specialists need to go on their perceptions of the conduct, frames of mind, and responses that an individual presents to decide narcissism.
 


 
 
 


 
What makes it basic is the way that we know precisely what a narcissist resembles. Underneath, I've recorded every one of the symptoms and practices you should search for. Remember that not these must be available to make an assurance of narcissism. An individual needs to display just 55 percent of the recognized characteristics to be viewed as narcissistic. The rundown I've made here is clear, so you can get a more top to the bottom image of a narcissist's regular practices.
 


 
1. Superiority and privilege
 


 
The universe of the narcissist is about acceptable/terrible, unrivaled/sub-par, and right/wrong. There is an unequivocal order, with the narcissist at the top—which is the main spot he has a sense of security. Narcissists must be the best, the most right, and the ablest; do everything their way; claim everything, and control everybody. Strikingly enough, narcissists can likewise get that unrivaled inclination by being the most exceedingly terrible, the most off-base, or the most badly, steamed, or harmed for a while. At that point, they feel qualified to get alleviating concern and reward, and even the privilege to hurt you or request expressions of remorse to "make things even."
 


 
2. Misrepresented requirement for consideration and approval
 


 
Narcissists need steady consideration—in any event, pursuing you around the house, requesting that you discover things, or continually saying something to catch your eye. Approval for a narcissist tallies just in the event that it originates from others. And still, at the end of the day, it doesn't mean a lot. A narcissist's requirement for approval resembles a channel. You pour in positive, strong words, and they simply stream out the opposite end and are gone. Regardless of the amount you tell narcissists you love them, respect them, or endorse them, they never feel it's sufficient—in light of the fact that where it counts, they don't accept anybody can cherish them. Notwithstanding the entirety of their self-ingested, bombastic boasting, narcissists are, in reality, insecure and fearful of not having what it takes. They continually attempt to inspire acclaim and endorsement from others to support their delicate self-images, yet regardless of the amount they're given, they generally need more.
 


 
3. Perfectionism
 


 
Narcissists have an incredibly significant requirement for everything to be great. They accept they ought to be great, you ought to be great, occasions ought to happen precisely true to form, and life should play out accurately as they imagine it. This is an agonizingly unimaginable interest, which brings about the narcissist feeling disappointed and hopeless a significant part of the time. The interest in flawlessness drives the narcissist to gripe and be continually disappointed.
 


 
4. The incredible requirement for control
 


 
Since narcissists are consistently baffled with the defective way life unfurls, they need to do, however much as could be expected to control it and shape it just as they would prefer. They need and request to be in control, and their sense of qualification causes it to appear to be legitimate to them that they ought to be in control—of everything. Narcissists consistently have a storyline in mind about what each "character" in their association ought to state and doing. At the point when you don't act true to form, they become very disturbed and agitated. They don't have the foggiest idea what's in store straight away since you're off content. They request that you state and do precisely what they have in mind so they can arrive at their ideal decision. You are a character in their inside play, not a genuine individual with your very own musings and sentiments.
 


 
5. Lack of responsibility—accusing and diverting
 


 
In spite of the fact that narcissists need to be in control, they never need to be liable for the outcomes—except if, obviously, everything goes their way precisely, and their ideal outcome happens. When things don't go as per their arrangement, or they feel scrutinized or not exactly great, the narcissist puts all the fault and responsibility on you. It must be another person's shortcoming. Some of the time, that fault is summed up—all police, all managers, all instructors, all Democrats, etc. On different occasions, the narcissist picks a specific individual or rule to a fault—his mom, the judge, or laws that point of confinement what he needs to do. Frequently, be that as it may, the narcissist accuses the one individual who is the most emotionally close, generally appended, steadfast, and adoring in his life—you. K up the façade of flawlessness, narcissists consistently need to accuse some other person or thing. You are the most secure individual to a fault since you are, to the least extent, liable to leave or reject him.
 


 
6. Lack of limits
 


 
Narcissists can't precisely observe where they end, and you start. They are a great deal like 2-year-olds. They accept that everything has a place with them, everybody thinks and feels equivalent to they do, and everybody needs very similar things they do. They are stunned and profoundly offended to be told no. On the off chance that a narcissist needs something from you, he'll put everything on the line to make sense of how to get it through steadiness, persuading, requesting, dismissing, or sulking.
 


 
7. Lack of sympathy
 


 
Narcissists have almost no capacity to empathize with others. They will, in general, be selfish and self-included and are typically unfit to comprehend what others are feeling. Narcissists anticipate that others should think and feel equivalent to they do and only from time to time give any idea to how others feel. They are likewise once in a while, sorry, repentant, or liable.
 


 
Be that as it may, narcissists are exceptionally sensitive to saw dangers, outrage, and dismissal from others. Simultaneously, they are almost oblivious in regards to different sentiments of the individuals around them. They habitually misread inconspicuous outward appearances and are commonly one-sided toward deciphering outward appearances as negative. Except if you are showcasing your feelings drastically, the narcissist won't precisely see what you're feeling. In any event, saying "I'm heartbroken" or "I love you" when the narcissist is tense and furious can reverse discharge. He will have a hard time believing you and may even misperceive your remark as an assault.
 


 
 
 


 
What's more, if your words and articulations aren't harmonious, the narcissist will probably react wrongly. This is the reason narcissists frequently confuse mockery as a genuine understanding of kidding from others as an individual assault. Their lack of capacity to accurately peruse non-verbal communication is one explanation narcissists are inadequately compassionate to your emotions. They don't see them, they don't translate them accurately, and in general, they don't trust you feel any uniquely in contrast to they do.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists additionally lack a comprehension about the idea of emotions. They don't see how their sentiments happen. They think their emotions are brought about by a person or thing outside of themselves. They don't understand that their emotions are brought about by their very own natural chemistry, contemplations, and translations. More or less, narcissists consistently think you cause their emotions—particularly the negative ones. The reason that since you didn't follow their arrangement or in light of the fact that you made them feel defenseless, you are to be faulted.
 


 
 
 


 
This lack of compassion makes genuine connections and emotional associations with narcissists troublesome or inconceivable. They simply don't see what any other individual is feeling.
 


 
8. Emotional thinking
 


 
You've likely wrongly tried to reason and utilize rationale with the narcissist to get him to comprehend the agonizing impact his practices have on you. You imagine that on the off chance that he sees how much his conduct hurt you, he'll change. Your clarifications, be that as it may, don't sound good to the narcissist, who just appears to be ready to know about his own contemplations and emotions. Despite the fact that narcissists may state they comprehend, they sincerely don't.
 


 
 
 


 
Thusly, narcissists settle on a large portion of their choices, dependent on how they feel about something. They just should have that red game vehicle in light of how they feel driving it, not by whether it is a decent decision to make for the family or for the financial limit. On the off chance that they're exhausted or depressed, they need to move or cut off the association or start another business. They generally look to a person or thing outside themselves to tackle their emotions and requirements. They anticipate that you should oblige their "answers," and they respond with aggravation and hatred on the off chance that you don't.
 


 
9. Parting
 


 
The narcissist's personality is part of acceptable and terrible parts, and they likewise split everything in their connections into great and awful. Any negative musings or practices are accused of you or others, though they assume praise for everything that is positive and acceptable. They deny their negative words and activities while consistently blaming you for objecting.
 


 
 
 


 
They additionally recall things as totally great and magnificent or as awful and loathsome. They can't blend these two builds:
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists aren't ready to see, feel, or recall both the positive and the negative in a circumstance. They can manage just a single viewpoint at once—theirs.
 


 
10. Fear
 


 
The narcissist's whole life is persuaded and invigorated by fear. Most narcissists' fears are profoundly covered and quelled. They're continually scared of being mocked, dismissed, or wrong. They may have fears about losing all their cash, about being emotionally or physically assaulted, about being viewed as terrible or deficient, or about being deserted. This makes it troublesome and here and there outlandish for the narcissist to confide in any other individual.
 


 
 
 


 
Actually, the closer your relationship turns into, the less he will confide in you. Narcissists fear any evident closeness or powerlessness since they're apprehensive you'll see their defects and judge or reject them. No measure of consolation appears to have any kind of effect since narcissists profoundly abhor and dismiss their very own shameful defects. Narcissists never appear to create trust in the affection for other people, and they consistently test you with more regrettable and more terrible practices to attempt to discover your limit. Their grasping fear of being "discovered" or deserted never appears to disperse.
 


 
11. Anxiety
 


 
Anxiety is a continuous, unclear inclination that something awful is going on or going to occur. A few narcissists show their anxiety by speaking continually about the fate that is going to occur, while some stowaway and curb their anxiety. Yet, most narcissists venture their anxiety onto their dearest friends and family, blaming them for being negative, unsupportive, intellectually sick, not putting them first, not reacting to their needs, or being selfish. This is intended to move anxiety to the adored one trying not to feel it themselves. As you feel more awful and more terrible, the narcissist feels much improved and better. Indeed, he feels more grounded and increasingly unrivaled as you feel your anxiety and wretchedness develop.
 


 
12. Shame
 


 
Narcissists don't feel a lot of blame since they think they are in every case right, and they don't accept their practices truly influence any other individual. Be that as it may, they harbor a great deal of shame. Shame is the conviction that there is something profoundly and for all time off-base or awful about what your identity is. Covered in a profoundly stifled piece of the narcissist are every one of the frailties, fears, and dismissed traits that he is continually on the gatekeeper to escape everybody, including himself. The narcissist is intensely ashamed of all these dismissed contemplations and sentiments. For instance, I had one narcissistic customer who was into skydiving, and other exceptional risk-taking practices reveal to me that he never felt fear. "Fear," he stated, "was underhanded." He was plainly on a campaign to overcome it.
 


 
 
 


 
Keeping his vulnerabilities covered up is basic to the narcissist's imagine self-esteem or bogus self. At last, in any case, this makes it inconceivable for them to be totally genuine and straightforward.
 


 
 
 


 
13. Powerlessness to be genuinely helpless
 


 
In view of their failure to get sentiments, their lack of compassion, and a steady requirement for self-insurance, narcissists can't genuinely adore or interface emotionally with others. They can't take a gander at the world from any other person's point of view. They're basically emotionally visually impaired and alone. This makes them emotionally penniless. At the point when one relationship is never again fulfilling, they frequently cover connections or start another one as quickly as time permits. They urgently need somebody to sympathize with their torment, to feel for them, and make everything similarly as they need it to be. Be that as it may, they have little capacity to react to your agony or fear or even your everyday requirement for care and compassion.
 


 
14. A failure to convey or function as a major aspect of a group
 


 
Mindful, helpful practices require a genuine comprehension of one another's sentiments. In what capacity will the other individual feel? Will this activity fulfill the two of us? In what capacity will this influence our relationship? These are the major questions that narcissists don't have the limit or the inspiration to consider. Try not to anticipate that the narcissist should comprehend your sentiments, surrender, or quit any pretense of anything he needs for your advantage; it's pointless.
 


 
 
 













 
Regions of Difficulty
 


 
Because of these practices and characteristics, narcissists generally have issues in numerous zones of their lives. They experience issues looking after connections, trouble at work or school, and not extraordinarily trouble with their budgetary issues.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists present as toughminded and unemotional people. Curiously, underneath all. The gloating and unrivaled frame of mind lies extremely delicate self-esteem. They experience issues tolerating even the scarcest analysis, and one gentle basic comment may make them shut that individual out until the end of time. Some of them harbor secret sentiments of shame or mortification. They make themselves feel better by responding with fury or disdain; they oftentimes disparage others so as to cause themselves to show up better. They effectively become desirous of others and feel that others are envious of them.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists do not just fantasize about force, achievement, or their appeal, however, they become engrossed with these considerations. They show no regret on the off chance that they have to misuse or even "advance on."
 


 
 
 


 
Somebody so as to arrive at their objective.
 


 
 
 













 
Are There Positives about Being a Narcissist?
 


 
Albeit most narcissists are presumptuous and egotistic, their outrageous certainty can likewise make them beguiling and appealing to other people. They are regularly famous from the outset, encompassed by appreciating companions, partners, or partners. People with gentle to direct narcissism can work well as business people, specialists, sales reps, performers, or pioneers in relentless callings (think Donald Trump or Steve Jobs).
 


 
 
 


 
They don't have questions about their capacities or choices; they don't feel regret or mull overexploiting or utilizing individuals to get what they need. It isn't irregular to locate that numerous CEO's of enormous organizations have some level of narcissism; they utilized their certainty and capacity to be a merciless contender to get where they are at.
 


 
 
 













 
The Narcissistic Personality Traits
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Traits of the Narcissist
 


 
What are the profoundly imbued personality traits of the narcissist? What makes them tick? According to the DSM IV-TR, Narcissistic Personality Disorder (NPD) is characterized by an inescapable example of self-importance, the requirement for appreciation, misuse of others, and lack of compassion, starting in early adulthood and show in an assortment of settings. Having a couple of traits of narcissism isn't bizarre, yet when narcissistic traits are overwhelming to such an extent that they weaken an individual's social working, it might qualify them for a determination of Narcissistic Personality Disorder (NPD).
 


 
 
 


 
TRAITS:
 




 
Feels bombastic and self-significant (e.g., overstates accomplishments and gifts to the point of lying, requests to be perceived as predominant without comparable accomplishments)
 


 
Is fixated on dreams of boundless achievement, acclaim, fearsome force or transcendence, unequaled brilliance (the cerebral narcissist), real magnificence or sexual execution (the substantial narcissist), or perfect, everlasting, all-vanquishing adoration or enthusiasm
 


 
Firmly persuaded that the person in question is one of a kind and, being extraordinary, must be comprehended by, should just be treated by, or partner with, other exceptional or remarkable, or high-status individuals (or foundations)
 


 
Requires extreme profound respect, worship, consideration, and certification – or, bombing that, wishes to be feared and to be infamous (narcissistic inventory)
 


 
Feels entitled. Anticipates outlandish or uncommon and ideal need treatment. Requests programmed and full consistence with their desires
 


 
Is "relationally exploitative," i.e., utilizes others to accomplish their own finishes
 


 
Devoid of compassion. Can't or reluctant to relate to or recognize the sentiments and necessities of others
 


 
Constantly desirous of others or accepts that they feel the equivalent about the person in question.
 


 
Arrogant, haughty practices or demeanors combined with rage when baffled, negated or stood up to
 




 
 
 


 
Not every person has every one of the traits, but rather most will have a noteworthy number of them.
 


 
 
 


 
1. OBSESSIVE LYING
; is ably beguiling and persuading. Stays away from responsibility by redirecting subjects, avoiding questions, and making up new lies, feigns, or dangers when addressed. His memory is self-filling in as he denies past explanations.
 


 
2. AGREEMENT BREAKER
; consents to anything at that point pivots and does the inverse. This cheat will blame YOU for being the agreement breaker.
 


 
3. HOTSHOT;
 effectively manipulates his way to the top. His family is an expendable prop in his prosperity exterior. It is appealing, smooth, and canny in his field; however, frequently misrepresents capacities and certifications. Necessities to have iron-fisted control and relies on his manipulation aptitudes. Heartlessly adventures or targets others in the quest for his consistently evolving motivation. Savagely abuses the intensity of his position. A malicious harasser in the workplace with no social or individual still, small voice. Regularly suspicious and neurotic.
 


 
4. UTILIZATIONS SEXUALITY
; is regularly hypersexual (male or female). Pussy, manhood, and interbreeding are accounted for by his victims. Effectively exhausted, he requests progressively freak incitement. May likewise retain sex or emotional help as methods for control.
 


 
5. FAULT GAME;
 Never acknowledges responsibility. Censures others for his disappointments and conditions — an ace at projection.
 


 
6. FIERCE;
 might be an undershirt, killer, sequential executioner, stalker, psychological militant. Has a 'chip-on-his-shoulder' frame of mind. He lashes out and demolishes or utilizes others (especially ladies and youngsters) as substitutes for his animosity or retribution. Poor motivation control. He will attempt to make YOU watch crazy. It can get hazardous and flighty. Has no regret or respect for the privileges of others.
 


 
7. CONTROLLING/MANIPULATING
; sets individuals in opposition to one another. Is verbally gifted at curving words and activities. Is appealing and generally gets his direction. Undermines your encouraging group of people and demoralizes you from seeing loved ones. Others' cash is regularly his goal. He is heartless, requesting, and savage. May seem miserable and needing assistance you surge in to assist him with your accounts, resources, and abilities. You might be utilized as his intermediary to interface with others for his benefit as he sets you up to accept any consequence.
 


 
8. SUBSTANCE ABUSE;
 Alcohol, drugs, and so on, he does it. We see his over-guilty pleasure in nourishment, exercise, or sex and his requirement for moment satisfaction.
 


 
9.
 
PERFECT PARTNER
 is shrewd and will come on solid, deeply inspire you. He appears to have similar qualities, interests, objectives, tastes, propensities. He appreciates your mind, aspiration, trustworthiness, and genuineness. He needs to wed you rapidly. He fakes trustworthiness, seems supportive, encouraging, liberal in the underlying stage. In the end, Jekyll transforms into Hyde, and his disposed of victims endure emotional and monetary decimation. You might be disposed of rapidly as he joins to "another ideal perfect partner."
 


 
10. QUITE AND ISOLATED;
 shows up socially pulled back, filthy, and unkempt. Odd reasoning is watched. Utilized as camouflage to seem pathetic to acquire whatever he can.
 


 
11. VICIOUS
; he watches with clear satisfaction as he delivers emotional, money related, physical, and verbal cold-bloodedness. He enjoys taking others' benefits. His objective: ladies, kids, the older, anybody helpless.
 


 
12. RAGES;
 spins out of control with almost no incitement. Has lopsided eruptions and infantile fits of rage. His fierceness can be scary. He needs control, consideration, and consistency. Any response is his result, fortunate or unfortunate consideration. Your fear, crying, shouting, verbally abusing, or disdain are his destinations
 


 
13. INDOCTRINATING/BRAINSTORMING
; is charming and ready to control others to acquire status, control, consistency, cash, and consideration. Regularly found in religion and legislative issues. He breathtakingly focuses on the credulous, defenseless, uneducated, or intellectually frail.
 


 
14. RISK-TAKING/THRILL-SEEKING
; never gains from his past imprudence’s and shows over and over terrible judgment. Poor drive control is a trademark.
 


 
15. DISTRESSSFULNESS
; is suspicious of everything as a rule for reasons unknown. Startled with an introduction (as extortion) and might be hazardous whenever compromised.
 


 
16. PICTURE MAKING;
 will parade his 'toys,' his kids, his better half, his certifications and achievements. Adoration, consideration, even looks from others; our jealousy or our fear is his target. It seems, by all accounts, to be the ideal dad, spouse, companion – to outcasts.
 


 
17. EMOTIONAL VACUUM;
 he bamboozles us by his momentous capacity to mirror human feelings. We are left numb when we understand that he totally lacks sympathy and certified feelings.
 


 
18. "SAINT";
 broadcasts good high standing. Blames others for corruption. These faker untruths, cheats, abuses, misleads, controls, and controls while depicting himself as having high ethics.
 


 
19. CALLING-CARD
; cautions his victims. Right off the bat in the relationship, he may uncover his tendency by saying, "You have to ensure yourself around me" or "Watch out, no one can tell what I'm doing." You snicker not understanding what's in store.
 


 
20. HUMBLE/PENITENT;
 he asks, "I'll change, I love you, I'll go for treatment." Appears to 'tell the truth' conceding past abuse and asking absolution. At that point, claims we are to blame and need to change as well.
 


 
 
 













 
Causes of Narcissism
 


 
The definite reason for narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) isn't known. Be that as it may, numerous scientists and emotional wellness experts trust it results from a blend of elements. These variables incorporate organic defenselessness, social communications with early parental figures, and mental elements that include demeanor and the capacity to oversee pressure. A few analysts propose that NPD is bound to create when kids experience caregiving that is too much spoiling and overindulgent, or when guardians have a solid requirement for their youngsters to be capable or uncommon so as to help their own self-esteem. Then again, different specialists estimate that NPD creates as the aftereffect of disregard or abuse/injury caused by guardians during adolescence. The disorder is normally obvious by youth or early adulthood when personality traits are increasingly hardened. Still, different examinations recommend that NPD, at any rate mostly, is because of genetics. As referenced, there are a few ways of thinking about what prompts narcissism. A typical topic, by and large, is that the progress into the grown-up world flops here and there, driving the individual to stay in the early, self-centered essential narcissistic phase of improvement.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism appears crosswise over families, maybe through some hereditary reason, yet in addition on the grounds that the narcissistic parent doesn't bond with their kids. This, thusly, may make the kids become narcissists also.
 


 
 
 













 
Risk factors
 


 
A narcissistic personality disorder is uncommon (1% of the all-inclusive community). It influences a larger number of guys than females. NPD regularly starts in early adulthood. Albeit numerous young people may appear to have traits of narcissism, this is typical for that formative stage and doesn't mean they'll proceed to create NPD.
 


 
 
 


 
Despite the fact that the reason for NPD isn't known, a few analysts imagine that extraordinary child-rearing practices, for example, disregard or unreasonable guilty pleasure, might be incompletely capable.
 


 
 
 


 
Risk factors for a narcissistic personality disorder may include:
 




 
Parental ridicule for fears and needs communicated during adolescence
 


 
Lack of parental warmth and applause during youth
 


 
Severe disregard and emotional abuse in adolescence
 


 
Excessive applause and overindulgence by guardians, other relatives, or companions
 


 
Unpredictable or inconsistent consideration giving from guardians
 


 
Learning manipulative practices from guardians
 


 
An oversensitive personality during childbirth
 


 
Excessive reverence that is never offset with sensible input
 


 
Excessive commendation for good practices or inordinate analysis for awful practices in adolescence
 


 
Being lauded for apparent excellent looks or capacities by grown-ups
 




 
 
 


 
Genetics
 


 
Scientists can think about the genetics of personality through two unique methods:
 




 
Identical twin examinations and
 


 
Examination of the human genome.
 




 
Twin examinations normally look at indistinguishable twins that were isolated during childbirth and brought up in various family units. Indistinguishable twins share indistinguishable qualities, and accordingly, any likenesses in personality traits might be credited to genetics. Research has recommended that indistinguishable twins raised independently share more personality traits than intimate twins, who don't have indistinguishable qualities.
 


 
 
 


 
Researchers have started to relate the presence of certain quality varieties with personality disorders. As indicated by an investigation in a 2007 issue of the "Worldwide Journal of Neuropsychopharmacology," a particular quality called tryptophan hydroxylase-2 might be involved in the improvement of certain personality disorders, including narcissistic personality disorder. Tryptophan hydroxylase-2 manages the creation of serotonin, a significant mind synthetic engaged with the mind-set guideline.
 


 
 
 


 
Youth Abuse
 


 
Other research has demonstrated that abuse or serious disregard in youth can prompt narcissistic personality disorder just as other personality disorders. People with recorded instances of youngster abuse are multiple times bound to be determined to have a personality disorder, including NPD, in early adulthood. Comparative discoveries have been found in examine in regards to a mother's boisterous attack of her kids. Be that as it may, scientists stay wary about understanding since "review" thinks about can't recognize whether this is circumstances and logical results circumstance or if the two are connected in an alternate manner.
 


 
 
 


 
A condition during Childhood The condition that a kid encounters while growing up may affect the advancement of personality disorders. As per the Mayo Clinic, treatment by the guardians (or guardians) can impact personality disorder improvement through extreme disregard, lack of love, erratic child-rearing, and the parental exhibit and instructing of manipulative practices. On the off chance that a kid gains from his folks that defenselessness is unsuitable, he may lose his sense of compassion for others. As referenced before, overindulgence and regarding the youngster as unreasonably uncommon may likewise prompt narcissism.
 


 
 
 


 
Social Conditioning
 


 
The cutting edge media besieges individuals with data on how we ought to try to accomplish greater and more noteworthy things in reality as we know it where big-name status is seen as the perfect state. Individuals are instructed by means of media, if not guardians, to anticipate exceptional treatment; there is little respect for the estimation of network and helping their individual man. It's currently the standard to hope to get something to no end and consistently be "vigilant for number one."
 


 
 
 


 
Over accentuation is put on physical wellness to advance sexual connections and self-picture as opposed to being fit for physical wellbeing. The emotional side of connections is undermined as individuals fret about looking for an alluring mate rather than one who can share their qualities and give emotional help to them and any youngsters they may have together.
 


 
 
 


 
There has been a general decrease in ethics and an expansion in exercises that were once observed as "socially unsuitable," for example, prostitution, medicate taking, betting, and so on. Being "decent" and having a good solid character are turning out to be less and less empowered as close to home characteristics. The expression "Pleasant folks finish last" is utilized all the more every now and again and has gotten increasingly satisfactory for advancing heartlessness and risk-taking. How frequently does that expression originate from the lips of narcissistic individuals?
 


 
 
 


 
Determination, riches, status, impact, and sexual ability are the characteristics that rule broad communications today. Extreme narcissistic traits are routinely celebrated in almost all the national and worldwide papers with accounts of famous people overstepping the law or their marriage promises.
 


 
 
 













 
What is Narcissistic Abuse?
 


 
Abuse can take numerous structures with or without a narcissist. A narcissist is portrayed as an individual that utilizations others as supply to bolster their inner self. They have no capacity to cherish, and maybe an undercover narcissist (avoided open), and even the accomplished can be deceived and abused by them, never realizing they are with a narcissist until the end or amazing finale. Abuse might be emotional, mental, physical, financial, otherworldly, or sexual.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists don't generally adore themselves. All things considered, they're driven by shame. It's simply the romanticized picture, which they persuade themselves they exemplify, that they respect. Yet, where it counts, narcissists feel the hole between the façade they show the world and their shame-based self. They strive to abstain from feeling that shame.
 


 
 
 


 
This hole is valid for different mutually dependent people too, yet a narcissist utilizes barrier components that are dangerous to relationships and cause torment and harm to their friends and family's self-esteem.
 


 
 
 


 
A large number of the narcissist's methods for dealing with stress are oppressive — henceforth the expression, "narcissistic abuse." However, somebody can be harsh, yet not be a narcissist. Addicts and individuals with other psychological maladjustments, for example, bipolar disorder, antisocial personality disorder (sociopathy), and marginal personality disorders, likewise are injurious. So are numerous mutually dependent people without psychological instability. Abuse will be abuse, regardless of the abuser's determination.
 


 
 
 


 
In case you're a casualty of abuse, the principal challenges for you are:
 


 

      
Clearly recognizing it;
 


 

      
Building an emotionally supportive network; 
 


 

      
Learning how to reinforce and ensure yourself.
 


 
Abuse might be emotional, mental, physical, financial, otherworldly, or sexual. Here are a couple of instances of abuse you might not have distinguished:
 


 
 
 


 

      
Verbal abuse
 


 
This incorporates putting down, harassing, denouncing, accusing, disgracing, requesting, requesting, compromising, condemning, mockery, seething, restricting, undermining, interfering with, blocking, and verbally abusing. Note that numerous individuals every so often makes requests, use mockery, interfere, contradict, scrutinize, fault, or square you. Think about the specific situation, perniciousness, and recurrence of the conduct before naming it narcissistic abuse.
 


 
     
 
  Manipulation
 


 
For the most part, manipulation is the circuitous impact on somebody to act such that facilitates the objectives of the manipulator. Regularly, it communicates incognito animosity. Think about a "poser." superficially, the words appear to be innocuous, even complimentary, yet underneath you feel disparaged or sense an antagonistic goal.
 


 
 
 


 
In the event that you encountered manipulation growing up, you may not remember it all things considered. See my blog on spotting manipulation.
 


 
       
 
  Emotional blackmail
 


 
Emotional blackmail may incorporate dangers, outrage, alerts, terrorizing, or discipline. It's a type of manipulation that incites questions in you. You feel fear, commitment, as well as blame, at times alluded to as "Haze."
 


 
       
 
  Gaslighting
 


 
Purposefully making you doubt your view of the real world or accept that you're intellectually awkward.
 


 
       
 
  Competition
 


 
Contending and one-increasing to consistently be on top, some of the time through exploitative methods, for example, cheating in a game.
 


 
       
 
  Negative differentiating
 


 
Superfluously making correlations with contrarily balance you with the narcissist or others.
 


 
       
 
  Sabotage
 


 
Problematic impedance with your undertakings or relationships with the end goal of vengeance or an individual bit of leeway.
 


 
       
 
  Exploitation and generalization
 


 
Utilizing or exploiting you for individual closures without respect for your sentiments or necessities.
 


 
      
 
  Lying
 


 
Persevering misdirection to maintain a strategic distance from responsibility or to accomplish the narcissist's very own finishes.
 


 
      
 
  Withholding
 


 
Retaining such things as cash, sex, correspondence, or love from you.
 


 
      
 
  Neglect
 


 
Disregarding the requirements of a youngster for whom the abuser is dependable. Incorporates youngster peril, i.e., setting or leaving a kid in a risky circumstance.
 


 
      
 
  Privacy attack
 


 
Disregarding your limits by glancing through your things, telephone, mail, denying your physical protection, or stalking or tailing you, overlooking security you've mentioned.
 


 
      
 
  Character death or defamation
 


 
Spreading pernicious tattle or lies about you to others.
 


 
      
 
 Violence Brutality 
 


 
Incorporates hindering your development, pulling hair, tossing things, or wrecking your property.
 


 
       
 
  Financial abuse
 


 
Financial abuse may incorporate controlling you through monetary mastery or depleting your accounts through coercion, burglary, manipulation, or betting, or by gathering obligation in your name or selling your own property.
 


 
       
 
  Isolation
 


 
Confining you from companions, family, or access to outside administrations and backing through control, manipulation, obnoxious attack, character death, or different methods for abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism and the seriousness of abuse exist on a continuum. It might run from overlooking your emotions to savage hostility. Regularly, narcissists don't assume liability for their conduct and move the fault to you or others; in any case, some do and are equipped for feeling blame and self-reflection.
 


 
 
 


 
Somebody with progressively narcissistic traits that carry on in a malevolent, threatening way is considered to have "harmful narcissism." Malignant narcissists aren't disturbed by blame. They can be cruel and enjoy dispensing torment. They can be so aggressive and deceitful that they participate in antisocial conduct. Distrustfulness places them in a cautious assault mode as a method for self-assurance.
 


 
 
 


 
Dangerous narcissism can look like sociopathy. Sociopaths have distorted or harmed minds. They show narcissistic traits, yet not all narcissists are sociopathic. Their inspirations vary. While narcissists prop up a perfect persona to be appreciated, sociopaths change what their identity is so as to accomplish their self-serving plan. They have to succeed at all expenses and barely care about overstepping social standards and laws. They don't append to individuals as narcissists do. Narcissists would prefer not to be surrendered. They're mutually dependent on others' endorsement. However, sociopaths can undoubtedly leave relationships that don't serve them. Albeit a few narcissists will appear once in a while plot to acquire their goals, they're typically more responsive than sociopaths, who briskly ascertain their arrangements.
 


 
 
 


 
In case you're in a relationship with a narcissist, it's essential to get outside help to see unmistakably what's happening, to reconstruct your self-esteem and certainty, and to figure out how to impart adequately and set limits.
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
2
: 
THE LANGUAGE OF NARCISSISTS
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The incognito manipulation brain research utilized on their victim's mind, how to perceive this kind of mind control.
 


 
 
 













 
The Language of Narcissists
 


 
Speaking with somebody who has a narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) can be befuddling. Outward appearances don't generally coordinate the circumstance, and even what is conveyed through words can feel immaterial or insane making. Language is one of the key apparatuses of manipulation for somebody determined to have NPD.
 


 
 
 


 
At the point when two non-disordered individuals take part in the discussion, they converse with one another. At the point when somebody with NPD goes into a dialog, he/she talks at the individual. By ceaseless talking (i.e., talking over another person or talking rapidly to keep away from someone else's perspective), the narcissist may destroy somebody's capacity to differ with what they are stating.
 


 
 
 


 
They may likewise utilize indirect rationale that doesn't bode well, yet when the narcissist has got done with talking, you may not realize where to start addressing. It is frequently simpler to concur. By reaffirming what is being stated, even by snorting or gesturing, the narcissist would then be able to utilize that understanding as a coupling contract.
 


 
 
 


 
A typical attribute in NPD is enthusiastic lying. Some of the time, they will manufacture data that was once consistent with making the falsehood increasingly reasonable to other people. In some cases, they may even venture to such an extreme as to persuade themselves regarding their untruths. Different occasions, they will lie about unimaginable and affected dreams that couldn't in any way, shape, or form be valid. Since the narcissist regularly lives in dreamland to make the "truth" that is best expected to suit their picture, they now and again don't comprehend the line between dream and truth.
 


 
 
 


 
They may utilize language to imply different falsehoods. For instance, the narcissist goes to a big name entertainment expo that the individual in question purchased passes to see. 
 


 
 
 


 
Language can often be played with to suit the requirements of the narcissist, notwithstanding the information that his hints are driving the audience down a bogus way. The narcissist can generally put the fault upon the audience for not understanding or confounding what they really stated, in spite of the undeniable expectation. This sort of conduct can fill an audience with self-question.
 


 
 
 


 
When chatting with a narcissist, it is essential to recall three things:
 


 
1. Do not react rapidly or out of feeling. Pretty much every discussion is an arrangement, and, when bartering with emotionally stacked issues, time is of the pith.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Do not apologize. A great many people who have a type of relationship with a narcissist will unavoidably wind up saying 'sorry' (and concurring) just to keep the relationship running easily. Actually, saying 'sorry' to a narcissist can prompt doing things you wouldn't customarily do to oblige their sentiments.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Do not concur or oppose this idea. On the off chance that the narcissist needs you to affirm that the relationship they had is genuine, rather than to consent to escape the discussion in a rush, it is ideal to utilize a hesitant answer. By concurring with a narcissist, you may empower haughty conduct or even hallucinations. By deviating, you may incite outrage or even brutality.
 


 
 
 


 
At the point when occupied with discussion with somebody who has NPD, attempt to keep it brief, exhausting, and unemotional. Some of the time, alluded to as being "medium chill." Several hesitant and non-provocative expressions that can be utilized as a rule include:
 


 

      
"I'll need to consider it."
 


 

      
"That's exceptionally fascinating."
 


 

      
"I hadn't contemplated that previously, let me hit you up."
 


 

      
"I see."
 


 

      
"I don't think enough about that subject to remark."
 


 

      
"You might be correct."
 


 

      
"Thanks for sharing that."
 


 

      
"Maybe."
 


 

      
"I'm sorry you feel that way."
 


 

      
"I comprehend why you feel that way."
 


 

      
"I'll think about that."
 


 

      
"Let's talk about this later."
 


 

      
"I'll remember that."
 


 
Numerous individuals see the finish of a discussion as the most troublesome. Once in a while, just saying, "It's the ideal opportunity for me to go," isn't sufficient for narcissist, and they will push for a more drawn out talk in spite of limits. They may utilize coerce or even reason a scene.
 


 
 
 


 
Prior to talking with a narcissist, you might need to give a clear reason to when and why you need to leave. Tell the person in question before you talk that you should go at a specific time. By giving reasonable notice, you help the narcissist comprehend what is coming down the road just as cementing your capacity to feel "right" in leaving rather than inconsiderate.
 


 
 
 


 
Correspondence with an individual determined to have NPD can be dubious about exploring. Clear limits and arrangements can assist you with abstaining from feeling remorseful, discourteous, mocked, or more awful.
 


 
 
 













 
The Secret Languages of the Narcissists: How Abusers Manipulate their Victims
 


 
Society expects that everybody has an inner voice and the capacity to empathize.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists (the individuals who meet the criteria for Narcissistic Personality Disorder), sociopaths, and insane people communicate in the language of insane making, of projection, of word plate of mixed greens, of gaslighting and of obsessive jealousy.
 


 
 
 


 
If you experience somebody with narcissistic traits, they could fall towards the extraordinary finish of the psychopathy range and be a sociopath or mental case.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic and accomplices with Antisocial Personality Disorder participate in ceaseless manipulation and cheapening of their victims, leaving victims feeling useless, on edge, and even self-destructive. This sort of persistent manipulation, which incorporates an idealization-depreciation dispose of abuse cycle where they "love bomb" their accomplices, devalue them through stonewalling, gaslighting, slanderous attacks, verbal and emotional abuse, at that point dispose of them until the injury starts once more, otherwise called narcissistic abuse—abuse by a join forces with NPD or on the furthest finish of the narcissistic rage.
 


 
 
 


 
Their manipulation is mental and emotionally wrecking and extremely risky, particularly considering the mind hardware for emotional and physical torment are one and the equivalent. What an injured individual feels when they are punched in the stomach can be like the agony an unfortunate casualty feels when they are loudly and emotionally abused, and the impacts of narcissistic abuse can be devastating and dependable, in any event, bringing about symptoms of PTSD or Complex PTSD. Obviously, this kind of abuse can leave mental and emotional scars that can endure forever.
 


 
 
 


 
However, what makes narcissistic abuse so risky is that it is regularly not perceived as abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional wellness experts are just currently starting to examine and comprehend what Narcissist Victim Syndrome is, in spite of the fact that survivors have been talking about it for a considerable length of time. Narcissistic abuse is basically mental and emotional (however victims can endure physical abuse also) and since these abusers utilize exceptionally incognito and deceptive techniques to abuse their accomplices, they can get away from responsibility for the abuse in light of the bogus persona they present to the outside world which is generally a beguiling cover that conceals their remorselessness.
 


 
 
 


 
Survivors regularly reprimand themselves for the abuse, not having the option to articulate what they've encountered. When they get familiar with the jargon of narcissistic abuse, they are outfitted with the apparatuses, the bits of knowledge, and the assets to mend. Learning the language and techniques of these predators implies that we are better arranged to distinguish the warnings while connecting with individuals who show dangerous narcissism or antisocial traits and that we can all the more likely shield ourselves from misuse and abuse. It implies we can define suitable limits with others, and settle on educated choices about who we keep in our lives.
 


 
 
 


 
Understanding the idea of these poisonous associations and how they influence us enormously affects our capacity to take part in self-care. I for one expertise decimating this sort of abuse can be, particularly when survivors are not ready to talk about their encounters in the conventional talk about what abuse involves and are frequently estranged and nullified by companions, relatives, and even psychological wellness experts who are not prepared in this kind of abuse. As a survivor, creator, mentor and a specialist, I've made it my strategic keep instructing the general population about the impacts of narcissistic abuse, the techniques of narcissistic abusers, and the way that recuperating from this kind of abuse is conceivable.
 


 
 
 


 
These pathological people stroll among us consistently in their bogus veils, frequently inconspicuous and unnoticed as a result of how shockingly typical they are. They can be of any sexual orientation, foundation, and financial status. Frequently, they are beguiling, magnetic, the life of the gathering, ready to snare their victims in and hoodwink the open easily. It's entirely conceivable you've dated, worked with, had a relative or companion with Narcissistic Personality Disorder or Antisocial Personality Disorder in your lifetime.
 


 
 
 


 
Learning their emotional language implies recognizing that their savagery isn't just unequivocal however understood, profoundly imbued in subtleties in their outward appearances, motions, tones, and above all, the conflicting befuddle between their words and activities. Their remorselessness is purposeful and intended to control and, at last, demolish their victims.
 


 
 
 


 
These kinds of abusers are conversant in manipulation, knowledgeable in sadism, in control, and in rage. It is much the same as mental and emotional assault—a shameful infringement of limits and of the trust the unfortunate casualty has given their abuser.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic abusers can assault at some random minute, utilizing their decision weapons of mockery, stooping comments, ridiculing, and fault moving at whatever point they see you as a risk or at whatever point they need amusement as an emotional response. They can likewise utilize their nonverbal language as a twisted smile, the chilly deadness in their eyes while purporting they're to adore you, their exhausted, sulky looks or their coldblooded giggling to menace you into accepting that you are substandard compared to them.
 


 
 
 


 
Survivors spend a significant part of the downgrading period of a harsh cycle (the stage where they are pushed off the platform, just to be disparaged and corrupted) always on their toes, cautious not to make a sound in case they bring about the fury of their narcissist. However, tread lightly doesn't help, as the narcissist can and will utilize everything without exception you've said or done against you.
 


 
 
 


 
There are three key snippets of data that narcissists much of the time gather in the idealization period of the relationship where they are the first love bombing and preparing you with over the top consideration, that they later use against you in the debasement and dispose of stages in their unique language of wickedness:
 


 
 
 


 
1. The imperfections, inadequacies, frailties, and secrets you've trusted in the narcissist about.
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissistic abuser cheers when you share your injuries, your battles, and your triggers right off the bat. It is then that a lot simpler for them to get underneath your skin and within your mind. During the beginning times of the relationship, you are probably going to feel so trusting and open with a narcissist that you share everything with them: your past, your heartbreaks, and what you see to be your defects.
 


 
 
 


 
You may consider this to be a method for setting up affinity, an association with your accomplice, a method for being defenseless and personal. A narcissistic abuser considers it to be supper laying itself on the table. They will claim to help you and empathize with you when you uncover these to them at first, yet will later utilize these to incite you, put down you and disparage you during the degrading stage.
 


 
 
 


 
Keep in mind: The narcissist has no restrictions with respect to what the individual in question will utilize; they flourish with the way that you are being retraumatized. Their capacity to make you relapse directly once again into the first injury with only one manner of expression makes them feel incredible. Also, they live for that force, since it is the main force they have. To a narcissist, any open injury is a challenge to cut further, and the narcissist can and consistently will cut an injury considerably more profound than the first.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Your qualities and achievements, particularly the ones they are pathologically jealous of.
 


 
 
 


 
At first, when you were on the platform, the narcissist couldn't get enough of your qualities and achievements. They couldn't quit raving about you to loved ones, demonstrating you off, treating you like a trophy, a fundamental piece of them. Their relationship with you unavoidably made them feel prevalent and significant. It reinforced their bogus picture of being an ordinary person who could get a "prize" like you.
 


 
 
 


 
In the debasement stage, a narcissist will actually make an interpretation of your qualities into saw blemishes. When you were "sure and provocative," yet now you're "presumptuous and vain." Before, you were "shrewd and driven," and now that is no joke "know-everything" or an "a smartass."
 


 
 
 


 
They gaslight you into accepting that your worth and worth are not genuine, all while anticipating their own sense of inadequacy onto you. They will debase, limit, and overlook what you achieve, presently going about as though it makes no difference to them and as though it is of little significance or incentive to the world. They will sustain you lies about your lack of fitness and capacity. They will profess to be better at you, at the same time taking your thoughts. They will insult you into accepting that you're not fit for the littlest of assignments, regardless of whether you are out of their association expertly and by and by. They will take steps to demolish your notoriety, and they will frequently undermine significant occasions just as encouraging groups of people you may have to endeavor to turn everybody against you. They will stomp on upon your fantasies, your yearnings, your convictions, your personality, your objectives, your calling, your gifts, your appearance, your way of life – at the same time lauding their own.
 


 
 
 


 
Their abrupt turn of language causes significant damage; it is damaging, stunning, and out of the blue horrible. All that they once commended will unavoidably be transformed and bent into a shortcoming. This is on the grounds that they can't stand you "winning" and being superior to them at something. To them, everything is a challenge and a game that they should succeed at all expenses. They look to crush you inside and out so you, thus, demolish and harm yourself—at the same time, they sit back, unwind and watch the disentangling of all that you've buckled down for.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Your need to satisfy them, and there should be unendingly disappointed.
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissist developed your requirement for their approval and endorsement at an early stage in the idealization stage. By making you reliant on their recognition, they adapted you to look for the unnecessary reverence that no one but they could dole out. Presently, as they devalue you, they utilize your requirement for approval to further their potential benefit by pulling back as often as possible, seeming dismal at each chance, and changing over each liberal thing you accomplish for them as a disappointment on your part that misses the mark regarding their absurd desires. Nothing can fulfill their high guidelines, and everything incorrectly will be called attention to. Truth be told, even the things they foul-up will be mailed to you.
 


 
 
 


 
Their fault moving language, uninvolved forceful sulky conduct, and narcissistic fierceness at the smallest damage turns into all-devouring for the person in question, as the unfortunate casualty endeavors to reinforce their endeavors to satisfy the guidelines of the narcissist — measures which unavoidably set the injured individual up for disappointment. For this, the injured individual is met with the obnoxious attack, allegations, and unjustifiable correlations that impart in that person an unavoidable sense of uselessness and failing to be "sufficient."
 


 
If the injured individual ever endeavors to make the narcissistic abuser responsible for being a not too bad person, they will lash out in rage, reprimanding them for the abuse and stonewalling the unfortunate casualty into quietness. They love to have the final word, particularly for the language they've made.
 


 
 
 


 
Reclaiming our control and force from a narcissistic abuser implies doing battle with the language they use against us. This implies looking for approving, proficient assistance for the abuse we've endured, isolating from these individuals in our lives, becoming familiar with the techniques of abusers, discovering encouraging groups of people, sharing our story to bring issues to light and finding the proper mending modalities that can empower us to rise above and flourish after their abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
3
: 
DEFINING THE EMOTIONAL DISORDER
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The conduct of individuals with a marginal personality disorder is frequently translated as emotional manipulation. For sure, when you love somebody with marginal personality disorder (BPD), it can feel as though you are tread lightly, never comprehending what may trigger them. Be that as it may, by reframing emotional manipulation in BPD, you can come to comprehend what genuinely drives your adored one's conduct and how to enable them to recuperate.
 


 
In this season of expanded emotional wellness mindfulness, we have gotten used to correlations among physical and mental conditions. From various perspectives, this is valid; physical and psychological sicknesses are surely similarly genuine and have the right to be treated with a similar watchfulness. Nobody ought to be shamed for encountering either.
 


 
 
 


 
In any case, if your adored one battles with marginal personality disorder (BPD), the correlations can regularly crash and burn. All things considered, the disease doesn't show in social bonds. Broken legs don't take steps to slaughter themselves. Asthma doesn't sway between adoring you and abhorring you dependent on some undefined criteria that appear to get away from you. In any case, BPD does those things and can leave you feeling as though you're continually remaining on the edge of an emotional bluff, never comprehending what will come straightaway.
 


 
 
 


 
For some, one of the most difficult pieces of cherishing somebody with BPD is the sense of emotional manipulation. Surely, the possibility that individuals with BPD are perniciously emotionally manipulative is normal, causing even a few clinicians to abstain from working with them. The manner in which your cherished one acts toward you can significantly crack your relationship and leave you with profound shame, outrage, disdain, and sadness. Nonetheless, what is seen as emotional manipulation seems to be, actually, an undeniably progressively complex marvel that comes not from a position of noxiousness, yet one of overpowering trouble sifted through significantly disordered adapting abilities. By understanding why individuals with marginal personality disorder act the manner in which they do, you can increase a superior viewpoint on the idea of their sickness and comprehend why serious treatment is crucial for mending.
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional disorder alludes to a range of mental or mental disorders brought about by an individual's failure to grasp and deal with their feelings in a manner an individual typically does. A youngster, for instance, can be brutal, while another kid can display extreme social reserved quality. Emotional disorders are typically joined with conduct disorders, as conduct is frequently a statement of a specific feeling. These can be named emotional and conduct disorders (EBD). The emotional disorder is frequently applied to youngsters who are of young, as the disorders would, for the most part, be watched and analyzed in a social setting, for example, the study hall.
 


 
 
 


 
When all is said in done, numerous specialists pinpoint three factors that can cause an emotional disorder, one of which is the qualities gone down to the youngster from his folks and grandparents. A few investigations have demonstrated that nearness of specific qualities can bring about a disorder or traits that will almost certainly form into a disorder. Another factor would be the neurological angle or the mind. Numerous therapists accept that individuals with EBD have a few abnormalities in the mind where synapses can't send and get hormones that manage feelings. Another reason would be the outside components, for example, the kid's condition, horrendous circumstances, and parental impacts that can influence a youngster's administration of feelings.
 


 
 
 


 
An emotional disorder can be delegated disguised or externalized. Some disguising disorders incorporate clinical misery, over the top impulsive disorder, particular mutism, and a few kinds of anxiety disorders, for example, avoidant disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
An externalizing emotional disorder, then again, is perceptible when a kid is very outgoing and boisterous.
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
4: 
THE ORIGINS OF EMOTIONAL MANIPULATION DISORDERS
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 













 
What is Emotional Manipulation?
 


 
You've likely experienced individuals who are emotionally manipulative and controlling.
 


 
 
 


 
They utilize these practices to get their direction or prevent you from saying or doing anything they don't care for.
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation can be unpretentious and misleading, leaving you befuddled and wobbly.
 


 
 
 


 
Or then again, it tends to be clear and requesting where fear, disgracing, and remorseful fits leave you shocked and immobilized.
 


 
 
 


 
In any case, emotional manipulation isn't worthy, and the more you enable it to proceed, the more force and certainty the manipulator gains in this uneven relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
Inevitably, any leftover of a sound association is pulverized, as the establishment of trust, closeness, regard, and security disintegrates under the sled of manipulation.
 


 
 
 













 
8 Emotional Manipulation Signs and Techniques
 


 
Take a gander at these 8 sorts of manipulation to check whether any exist in your relationship:
 


 
 
 


 
1. They turn your words to profit them.
 


 
A manipulator experiences difficulty tolerating responsibility for their conduct, and regularly on the off chance that you call them on it, they'll figure out how to turn it around to make you feel terrible or remorseful.
 


 
 
 


 
For instance, you may submit an authentic question like, "It truly pesters me you didn't assist me with cleaning the house when you guaranteed you would."
 


 
 
 


 
Rather than saying 'sorry' recognizing their activities, and rectifying the circumstance, a manipulator will say something like, "You could never have requested that I help you on the off chance that you realized how overpowered I am. Why not consider me for once?"
 


 
 
 


 
Or on the other hand, they may offer a semi expression of remorse like, "Well I'm extremely, unfortunately, I was working until late the previous evening. I realize I ought to have educated you regarding all the pressure I'm under and how tired I've been. I might be catching something."
 


 
 
 


 
This sort of manipulation is practically more regrettable than no conciliatory sentiment at all since it makes YOU feel awful for asking and anticipating that they should finish on something they guaranteed.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that a statement of regret feels bogus or if the other individual answers with preventiveness or remorseful fits, don't enable them to pull off it.
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that you do, it will simply engage them to do it once more. Clarify that a genuine statement of regret is unequivocal and followed by a conduct change.
 


 
 
 


 
2. The manipulator says something and later denies it.
 


 
A manipulator may express yes to a solicitation or make a pledge to you, and afterward, when the opportunity arrives to finish, they helpfully overlook they at any point said anything.
 


 
 
 


 
Except if you have a chronicle of them making the guarantee, you can't generally demonstrate anything — so it's your "awful memory" against their lying words.
 


 
 
 


 
A gifted manipulator has a method for turning a past discussion or replaying it to suit their needs and make you feel like it's your shortcoming and that you are neglectful, requesting, or strange.
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation causes you to address yourself and make you feel awful or regretful that you tested the manipulator.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
In the event that you experience an example of these sleights of hand manipulation tactics in your relationship, start to record precisely what the manipulator has guaranteed.
 


 
 
 


 
Date it and post it in your kitchen or email it to yourself and the other individual.
 


 
 
 


 
This may outrage an emotional manipulator, and they may scrutinize your trust or confidence in them. However, it will make it harder to deny the discussion later on.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Emotional manipulation utilizes remorseful fits to control you.
 


 
This is definitive in manipulative conduct.
 


 
 
 


 
The emotional manipulator finds your sensitive Achilles heel and jabs it until you either yield, or it makes you feel like a dog hound.
 


 
 
 


 
"You proceed to the films without me. It's fine. I'll remain at home and finish the clothing."
 


 
 
 


 
"It's constantly about your needs. In the event that you comprehended what sort of youth I had, you'd never request that I do that."
 


 
 
 


 
"If you truly need to go on the young ladies end of the week, proceed. I simply don't see how you could leave the children for that long."
 


 
 
 


 
"I realize we can't bear to purchase another vehicle. In any case, I've never had another vehicle in my life. I surmise I'll simply live with this poop vehicle for eternity. I don't merit decent things."
 


 
 
 


 
The emotional manipulator realizes how to assume the unfortunate casualty job of flawlessness.
 


 
 
 


 
They work up a pot of blame and compassion and serve it to you in loading ladleful.
 


 
 
 


 
They will say simply regarding anything to get their direction — particularly in the event that they see a sort hearted, sensitive injured individual.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
You are not going insane. They are playing you for everything it has. Try not to succumb to these manipulatives, blame loaded trickeries.
 


 
 
 


 
Try not to surrender to their latent requests or demands for compassion.
 


 
 
 


 
This individual is a grown-up. Remind them of that, and how they are splendidly ready to adapt to your choice or activities.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Manipulators attempt to reduce your issues or troubles.
 


 
Emotional manipulators couldn't care less much about your significant issues — except if they can utilize them as a stage to feature their own.
 


 
 
 


 
"You think you had it awful sitting in rush hour gridlock today?
 


 
 
 


 
Did you ever consider how I need to manage traffic each day? It takes a very long time off my life. Be grateful you just needed to manage it today."
 


 
 
 


 
"Gosh, that is awful you and your mother had a battle. In any case, simply be grateful you have a mother. My mother is dead, and in any event, when she was alive, we battled substantially more than you and your mother do. It nearly felt like I never had a mother."
 


 
 
 


 
In the event that you call attention to how the manipulator simply reversed the situation, they'll likely attempt to make you look selfish and forsaken.
 


 
 
 


 
They won't recognize their narcissistic conduct or reframe the discussion around your agony or trouble.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
There's very little you can do in these circumstances with the exception of leave and discover another person who is all the more minding, humane, and develop.
 


 
 
 


 
Try not to open your vulnerabilities to somebody who stomps on all over them.
 


 
 
 


 
5. They utilize the emotional, controlling secondary passage strategy.
 


 
As opposed to being immediate and straightforward, manipulators will avoid legitimate correspondence and utilize aloof forceful techniques.
 


 
 
 


 
They may talk despite your good faith with others, or ask another person to be their representative, so they don't need to be the troublemaker or young lady.
 


 
For instance, they may have a companion disclose to you they need to separate or make reference to your closest companion how miserable they are in the room.
 


 
They may utilize detached methods for telling you they're distraught or miserable by frowning, stepping, or giving the quiet treatment.
 


 
Or on the other hand, they may state something strong; however, they act in extremely unsupportive manners.
 


 
For instance, your mate may state she's cheerful for you to complete a requesting work venture at home in the night times, however then she goes out shopping, leaving you home with the children.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
For your very own significant serenity, get down on them about this conduct.
 


 
 
 


 
More than likely, you'll get a cautious, irate response, however, at any rate, the manipulator sees that you realize what they're doing.
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that this circuitous, manipulative conduct happens consistently, it's the ideal opportunity for advising or to think about your leave technique.
 


 
 
 


 
6. They use tactics that suck the energy from the room.
 


 
Manipulators have a method for strolling into a room and hauling a foreboding shadow alongside them.
 


 
 
 


 
They need the consideration and spotlight to be on them, and they need to ensure everybody in the room sees in the event that they are furious, troubled, or disappointed here and there.
 


 
 
 


 
Individuals will, in general, scramble to oblige the manipulator or to attempt to enable them "to feel much improved." They may ask, "Would you say you are OK? Is something incorrectly?"
 


 
 
 


 
This is only the opening the manipulator needs to bolster the compassion and energies of others.
 


 
 
 


 
Being in the stay with a manipulator, a sensitive individual will feel depleted and cockeyed.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
On the off chance that conceivable, leave the room. Why part with your energy and positive mind-set to a manipulator?
 


 
 
 


 
In case you're stuck in the room, imagine yourself encompassed by an impervious hindrance that shields you from the negative vibes of the manipulator.
 


 
 
 


 
7. Emotional manipulators use hostility or outrage.
 


 
Emotional manipulators regularly attempt to threaten others with forceful language, unpretentious dangers, or inside and out indignation.
 


 
 
 


 
Particularly in the event that they see you're awkward with showdown, they will utilize it to control you and get their direction rapidly.
 


 
 
 


 
The objective is to encourage fear or extraordinary uneasiness so you'll paunch up rapidly.
 


 
 
 


 
Possibly your significant other has a hissy fit each time you raise her over-spending.
 


 
 
 


 
Possibly your better half raises his voice and hammers entryways when you accomplish something he doesn't care for.
 


 
 
 


 
After some time, the manipulator adapts all the person needs to do get somewhat insane, and things will go their direction.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
Except if you fear physical viciousness, get down on them about this conduct. In the event that this heightens the outrage or forcefulness, go out altogether.
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that outrage and animosity are left unchecked, they can go to progressively hurtful practices.
 


 
 
 


 
Request guiding so the manipulator can see unmistakably what they are doing and how to change their practices.
 


 
 
 


 
8. They search out the sensitive, insecure, or excessively trusting.
 


 
Emotional manipulators search out the vulnerabilities in individuals so as to misuse them.
 


 
 
 


 
Truth be told, they may deliberately or unknowingly make relationships with individuals who are the most defenseless and ready to be controlled.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators can, without much of a stretch, recognize the individuals who have a need to please or who's instabilities drive them to put their own needs behind the necessities of others.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators may initially appear to be minding and sensitive, utilizing these strategies to redirect their actual thought processes.
 


 
 
 


 
After some time, they unobtrusively start to abuse the more delicate sensibilities of the other individual.
 


 
 
 


 
Your reaction:
 


 
In the event that you know you're exceptionally sensitive and giving, you are progressively inclined to succumbing to a manipulator.
 


 
 
 


 
Figure out how to recognize the indications of emotional manipulation in a relationship early so you can stay away from these sorts of individuals through and through.
 


 
 
 


 
In case you're as of now in a manipulative relationship, it might be increasingly hard for you to pull away, as sensitive individuals frequently have a diverse assortment of outrage, dedication, blame, and instability tied up in these relationships.
 


 
 
 


 
You may require the help of an advocate to figure out your emotions and figure out how to break liberated from this ruinous circumstance.
 


 
 
 


 
Emotionally controlling individuals should be in control, and this longing for control regularly covers hidden sentiments of frailty.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulators regularly remunerate by seeming, by all accounts, to be self-certain and incredible.
 


 
 
 


 
Their thought processes are quite often self-serving, and they have little respect for how their practices sway everyone around them.
 


 
 
 


 
They have to feel prevalent and amazing and search out individuals who will approve them by obliging their manipulative, uninvolved forceful practices.
 


 
 
 


 
Your own feelings are your best apparatus for perceiving the issue among you and a manipulator.
 


 
 
 


 
Look at your feelings to check whether you feel cautious, shamed, blameworthy, furious, or thoughtful toward the other individual.
 


 
 
 


 
Do you end up rationalizing their conduct or bargaining your own convictions and decisions to oblige them?
 


 
 
 


 
You may not perceive these negative sentiments in the instantaneousness existing apart from everything else, except later when you return to the circumstance, these feelings may develop.
 


 
 
 


 
If you speculate, you're engaged with an accomplice who needs to control you, at that point right now is an ideal opportunity to make a move to end the abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
Talk with an advisor to approve your doubts and to check whether there's an expectation for the relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
The more you stay in this undesirable dynamic, the greater the amount of your bona fide self you part with.
 


 
 
 













 
Narcissistic Personality Disorder
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder — one of a few sorts of personality disorders — is a state of mind where individuals have their very own expanded sense significance, a profound requirement for over the top consideration and adoration, disturbed relationships, and a lack of sympathy for other people. Yet, behind this cover of outrageous certainty lies a delicate self-esteem that is helpless against the scarcest analysis.
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissistic personality disorder can cause issues in numerous everyday issues, for example, relationships, work, school, or financial issues. Individuals with a narcissistic personality disorder might be commonly miserable and disillusioned when they're not given the exceptional favors or deference, they accept their merit. They may discover their relationships unfulfilling, and others may not appreciate being around them.
 













 
Treatment for Narcissistic Personality Disorder Revolves around Talk Treatment (psychotherapy)
 


 
 
 


 
Symptoms
 


 
Signs of narcissistic personality disorder and the seriousness of symptoms fluctuate. Individuals with the disorder can:
 




 
Have an overstated sense of self-significance
 


 
Have a sense of qualification and require consistent, over the top profound respect
 


 
Expect to be perceived as prevalent even without accomplishments that warrant it.
 


 
Exaggerate accomplishments and abilities
 


 
Be distracted with dreams about progress, power, brightness, magnificence, or the ideal mate.
 


 
Believe they are prevalent and can just connect with similarly exceptional individuals.
 


 
Monopolize discussions and disparage or look down on individuals they see as substandard.
 


 
Expect unique favors and unquestioning consistency with their desires.
 


 
Take the preferred position of others to get what they need.
 


 
Have powerlessness or reluctance to perceive the necessities and sentiments of others
 


 
Be desirous of others and accept others begrudge them.
 


 
Behave in a pompous or haughty way, seeming to be prideful, egotistic and bombastic
 


 
Do not hesitate on having the best of everything — for example, the best vehicle or office
 




 
 
 


 
Simultaneously, individuals with narcissistic personality disorder experience difficulty taking care of anything they see as analysis, and they can:
 


 
•
       
Become eager or irate when they don't get unique treatment
 


 
•
       
Have huge relational issues and effectively feel insulted
 


 
•
       
React with anger or hatred and attempt to deprecate the other individual to cause themselves to seem prevalent
 


 
•
       
Have trouble controlling feelings and conduct
 


 
•
       
Experience serious issues managing pressure and adjusting to change
 


 
•
       
Feel depressed and irritable in light of the fact that they miss the mark concerning flawlessness
 


 
•
       
Have secret sentiments of uncertainty, shame, powerlessness, and mortification
 


 
 
 


 
When to see a specialist
 


 
Individuals with a narcissistic personality disorder might not have any desire to feel that anything could not be right, so they might be probably not going to look for treatment. In the event that they do look for treatment, it's bound to be for symptoms of wretchedness, medication or liquor use, or another psychological well-being issue. Be that as it may, saw affront to self-esteem may make it hard to acknowledge and finish treatment.
 


 
 
 


 
In the event that you perceive parts of your personality that are regular to narcissistic personality disorder or you're feeling overpowered by trouble, consider contacting a confided in specialist or psychological wellness supplier. Getting the correct treatment can help make your life all the more fulfilling and agreeable.
 


 
Causes
 


 
 
 


 
It's not recognized what causes narcissistic personality disorder. Similarly, as with personality improvement and other psychological well-being disorders, the reason for a narcissistic personality disorder is likely intricate. Narcissistic personality disorder might be connected to:
 




 
Environment ― bungles in parent-youngster relationships with either unreasonable love or extreme analysis that is ineffectively sensitive to the kid's understanding
 


 
Genetics ― acquired characteristics
 


 
Neurobiology — the association between the mind and conduct and thinking
 




 
 
 


 
Risk factors
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder influences a bigger number of guys than females, and it regularly starts in adolescence or early adulthood. Remember that, albeit a few youngsters may show traits of narcissism, this may just be run of the mill of their age and doesn't mean they'll proceed to create narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
Despite the fact that the reason for a narcissistic personality disorder isn't known, a few analysts believe that in naturally powerless youngsters, child-rearing styles that are overprotective or careless may have an effect. Genetics and neurobiology additionally may assume a job being developed of narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
Entanglements
 


 
Entanglements of narcissistic personality disorder, and different conditions that can happen alongside it, can include:
 




 
Relationship challenges
 


 
Problems at work or school
 


 
Depression and anxiety
 


 
Physical medical issues
 


 
Drug or liquor abuse
 


 
Suicidal considerations or conduct
 




 
 
 


 
Prevention
 


 
Since the reason for a narcissistic personality disorder is obscure, there's no realized method to forestall the condition. Be that as it may, it might help to:
 




 
Get treatment as quickly as time permits for youth emotional wellness issues
 


 
Participate in family treatment to learn solid approaches to impart or to adapt to clashes or emotional pain
 


 
Attend child-rearing classes and look for direction from specialists or social laborers if necessary
 




 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 













 
The Difference Between Narcissism and Narcissistic Personality Disorder
 


 
Individuals toss around the expression "narcissism" constantly. Also, that is not astounding, during a time where our innovation (e.g., social systems and social media) strengthen narcissistic practices through social examinations.
 


 
 
 


 
What can get confounding understands the difference between a personality attribute — narcissism — and an all-out personality disorder, narcissistic personality disorder? How about we jump into comprehend the likenesses and differences between these two related mental ideas.
 


 
 
 


 
Some narcissism — called solid or ordinary narcissism — can be consummately typical and great in an individual's life.
 


 
 
 


 
What is Narcissistic Personality Disorder?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder, then again, is a suffering, maladaptive example of musings and practices that happen in at least two of the accompanying territories:
 


 

      
Thinking
 


 

      
Emotion
 


 

      
Interactions with others
 


 

      
Impulse control
 


 
This example of conduct and musings is rigid and altogether impacts the individual's life in manners that cause individual trouble. It's insufficient for the practices to mess up others' lives. It needs to cause the individual who has the disorder some trouble and steamed too.
 


 
 
 


 
This example can be followed back to the individual's adolescent years or youth. It is anything but a brief issue brought about by occasions in the individual's life, nor is it a piece of another psychological disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
In narcissistic personality disorder (NPD), this example of musings and practices incorporates the accompanying essential symptoms:
 


 

      
An overpowering vainglorious sense of self
 


 

      
Has steady dreams of boundless achievement and force
 


 

      
Can just be comprehended by other people who are as extraordinary and as one of a kind as they are
 


 

      
Requires steady profound respect, in light of their delicate self-esteem
 


 

      
Has an unreasonable sense of qualification, anticipates that others should take into account their needs and wishes
 


 

      
Exploits others to get what they need
 


 

      
Lacks compassion for other people
 


 

      
Focuses on envy, as either the objective of others' jealousy or accepts are desirous of them
 


 

      
Displays consistent egotistical mentalities and practices
 


 
For an individual to be determined to have NPD, they have to meet at least five of the above symptoms all the time. Numerous individuals allude to somebody with these symptoms similar to a "narcissist" — inferring the individual would probably meet the criteria for NPD. This can likewise be known as "threatening narcissism."
 


 
 
 













 
Sound Narcissism
 


 
Fortunately, you can have a sound, non-useless measure of narcissism. Now and then, we call people with so much narcissism as having great self-certainty or great self-esteem. In any case, it's frequently joined with an affirmation of their breaking points, security in knowing their very own qualities and shortcomings, solid, sympathetic relationships with others, and understanding that an individual can gain from their missteps throughout everyday life.
 


 
 
 


 
Indeed, even solid narcissism can now and then fall into broken narcissistic conduct. The key is that the vast majority who take the uncommon narcissistic conduct to an outrageous acknowledge they've done as such. Much of the time, they likewise feel some lament and perceive the mistake made. Individuals with solid narcissism try to fix relationships when they've coincidentally harmed others.
 


 
 
 


 
Differentiation this to NPD. An individual with untreated NPD frequently has little respect for others' sentiments, or how the individual's practices may hurt others. They, for the most part, lack the sympathy and empathy to place themselves from someone else's perspective or circumstance. While a few people with a narcissistic personality disorder may perceive their failings, they frequently don't want to take care of them. Rather, they accept that others ought to adjust to their needs.
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
5: 
THE FAVORITE VICTIMS OF NARCISSIST
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 













 
Emotional Weakness and Delicacy
 


 
 
 


 
The Emotional Fragility: The Unending Keys to Understanding and Strengthening Your Ego
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional delicacy is incredibly not quite the same as emotional affectability. Affectability is, to a greater degree, a quality you may have. Then, delicacy is, even more, a lack of assets for dealing with your most perplexing inner states. As such, delicacy implies experiencing a great deal of difficulty standing up to even the least difficult everyday hardships.
 


 
 
 


 
We just explained the difference between those two terms for a significant explanation. There are many individuals who attempt to standardize their emotional delicacy. They come up with the rationalization that it's simply the manner in which they are, that it's the means by which they carry on with their life. "I'm only a sensitive individual, and I can't change that" is typically what they state with all due respect.
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional delicacy can regularly prompt incapacitating states loaded with anxiety, stress, and sadness.
 


 
 
 


 
It's likewise critical to get that if conduct or frame of mind just brings you enduring, frailty, and zero control over yourself, at that point, there's no space for pardons. Not when all you receive in return is misery. Essentially, sensitive individuals have a more extensive vision of life. They can bargain much better with their needs and their general surroundings. Delicate individuals, then again, are emotionally constrained.
 


 
 
 


 
What's more, this quality will, in general, be an indication of a lot of greater basic issues. We're discussing things like burdensome disorders, anxiety, awful emotional administration, and so on… That's the reason we need to invest some more energy diving into this point.
 


 
 
 













 
Emotional Fragility: Causes and Characteristics
 


 
The American College Health Association distributed an intriguing investigation about emotional delicacy a couple of years back. In it, they discussed an extremely stressful measurement: youngsters today have a lot higher paces of wretchedness, stress, and emotional reliance. To top it all off, endeavored suicide rates are additionally a lot higher in this age gathering. What's taking cover behind this measurement is a plainly emotional delicacy. There's an unmistakable lack of assets for confronting even the most normal issues.
 


 
 
 


 
A large portion of these mental issues has its underlying foundations in individuals' childhood. Families in the previous scarcely any decades haven't known about the way that our general public has begun to request an ever-increasing number of abilities. That has made guardians work significantly harder to get their children to think about hard, in any event, when they're amazingly youthful.
 


 
 
 


 
They attempt to give them each conceivable asset to ensure they succeed. They drive them to exceed expectations and continually remind them of how uncommon they are and how they need to progress nicely. That is all, justifiable. In any case, they're overlooking a couple of key subtleties with that approach.
 


 
 
 


 
One of the most significant ones is that guardians shield their kids from disappointment. It's likewise difficult for these children to figure out how to settle on their own choices. They feel insecure and amazingly cumbersome with regard to managing their very own feelings. Gradually, they begin to understand that they're not really "uncommon" to every other person. They understand they don't have the right stuff, instruments, or strategies to go up against even the most essential issues.
 


 
 
 


 
Presently we're going to investigate the normal characteristics of emotionally delicate individuals.
 


 
 
 













 
How would I know whether I'm emotionally delicate or not?
 


 
Other than the ones we previously referenced, here are a portion of the characteristics of emotionally delicate individuals:
 


 
•
       
Inability to process and comprehend feelings like pity, outrage, frustration, and so forth… They frequently go overboard to these sorts of feelings.
 


 
•
       
A consistent sense of vacancy.
 


 
•
       
Feeling overpowered by basic issues, differences, or any circumstance that doesn't go as they'd trusted.
 


 
•
       
Inability to manage dissatisfaction.
 


 
•
       
Difficulty assuming responsibility for their very own life. Having an inclination that everything is a lot for them.
 


 
•
       
Constant issues in their social life. Feeling that everybody around them is a mistake or betrays them.
 


 
•
       
Low energy levels, detachment, steady despairing.
 


 
•
       
They appear to be insecure, doing pretty much any assignment. They feel insufficient and have low self-esteem.
 


 
•
       
When things don't go as they'd trusted, they now and again respond furiously or savagely.
 


 
Your emotional wellbeing frequently relies upon how you were raised, and the nature of your soonest cooperation with others. In any case, a poisonous childhood or ineffectual instruction isn't the end. There's consistently time to defeat emotional delicacy.
 


 
 
 


 
Strategies for strengthening your sense of self and getting emotionally solid:
 


 
 
 


 
If you need to comprehend the procedure for getting emotionally solid, envision a porcelain cup. You realize that it's sensitive. You can even observe the breaks from when it's been broken previously. However, that porcelain cup is definitely not delicate. It's stunning because of its shape, its material, and all its little flaws.
 


 
 
 


 
You can generally enable yourself to be sensitive, yet don't enable yourself to be delicate. Try not to traverse the line where you wind up, leaving your whole self in pieces. Try not to let your personality, values, and inner magnificence get away from you. However, how would you do that? How would you dispose of the delicacy that keeps you from being upbeat?
 


 
•
       
The initial step is to get mindful of your emotional shortcomings. We're discussing all the vacant spaces that breaking points and cause inconvenience. It may seem like a bizarre technique, yet there are examines that show that workmanship treatment can be amazingly viable for this. It's an extraordinary method to investigate your contemplations, feelings, and inward issues through hues, canvases, and drawings.
 


 
•
       
The second step is to assume liability for yourself. Delicate individuals feel like they're victims of their condition, or society, or the individuals around them. All they ever do is respond, similar to a ball ricocheting to and fro between a hard divider. Rather than simply responding, you need to take control and make a genuine, bold sense of responsibility.
 


 
•
       
That responsibility additionally implies abandoning your past encounters and making changes in the present. All progressions join fear, yet in the event that you can move those rocks out of the way of your everyday life, you'll perceive the amount progressively secure you've become. You're at long last in control of yourself.
 


 
Finally, we need to call attention to this is clearly not a simple procedure. A ton of times, it takes the assistance of a decent clinician to make it the whole distance. As hard as it seems to be, recall that you generally have the opportunity to turn out to be emotionally solid. To reshape your porcelain cup and make it into an extraordinary, solid, and wonderful bit of craftsmanship.
 


 
 
 













 
Narcissists Are a Highly Sensitive Person's 'Shadow Self'
 


 
Narcissists — individuals who live with a narcissistic personality disorder — have an oblivious conviction that they are better than others. With that comes a hankering for consideration, regard, and frequently riches or notoriety, and a practically all-out lack of compassion for the necessities of others. An outcome is a person who will control or utilize others so as to get what they need.
 


 
 
 


 
Being a profoundly sensitive individual, then again, is fit as a fiddle, and has nothing to do with self-image. Exceptionally sensitive individuals have sensory systems that procedure all info profoundly, from sights and sounds to contemplations and feelings. They will, in general, be imaginative, mindful, and mind. They can likewise get overpowered effectively, in light of the fact that such preparing prompts overstimulation.
 


 
 
 


 
So what do these two shares practically speaking? All things considered, nothing. Furthermore, in one keyway, they're practically flawless contrary energies: sympathy.
 


 
 
 


 
Even however, high affectability is principally about how you process data. Actually, most HSPs are very sympathetic. Indeed, the cerebrum areas related to compassion are considerably more dynamic in HSPs than in non-HSPs, and HSPs, when all is said in done, will, in general, be giving philanthropic nurturers.
 


 
 
 


 
That makes the narcissist, who has no sympathy, basically the HSP's "shadow self."
 


 
 
 


 
For what reason would somebody who is minding and compassionate need to associate with somebody who has no sympathy by any means? Superficially, they wouldn't — however, at that point, narcissists don't actually stroll around holding a sign that says, "I Want to Use You."
 


 
 
 


 
Truth be told, they do the inverse: Many narcissists figure out how to act beguiling, benevolent, and complimenting so as to veil their inclinations. (Critically, this is, for the most part, oblivious — like nearly everything that makes somebody a narcissist. Normally, they don't realize they're doing it.) Many will even "love bomb" the individuals they need to draw near to, developing them to feel great around the narcissist and, along these lines, not flee like an addictive substance.
 


 
 
 


 
Also, anybody, HSP or not, can get snared.
 


 
 
 


 
What makes HSPs diverse is that their very own elevated level of compassion implies they are attracted to aiding and thinking about others. Also, the narcissist has a perpetual should be thought about: a requirement for consideration, praises, unique favors, and — most importantly — consistent consolation. Besides, despite the fact that they have extremely grandiose dreams, nothing they do or accomplish is ever adequate, so they're habitually disturbed, disillusioned, or even uncontrollably irate. Isn't there any individual who can treat them the manner in which they merit?
 


 
 
 


 
Indeed, lamentably, and very regularly, it's an HSP, the individual who acutely feels the torment of others and takes a genuine sense of fulfillment from making a difference. HSPs are regularly the first to attempt to support and solace somebody out of luck, and that puts them at risk of getting maneuvered into a narcissist's snare.
 


 
 
 


 
This can rapidly prompt an uneven relationship where the narcissist gets every one of the advantages of an HSP's understanding, sympathy, mindful, and love — and regularly, incalculable hours of their time. The HSP, then again, gets just increasingly depleted. They may confront a torrent of oddity outs, feel sorry for parties, obnoxious attack, and outrage.
 


 
 
 


 
Furthermore, regardless of the amount they do, they will discover it's insufficient              
 


 
 
 




 
Empathic individuals
 


 
Integrity
 


 
Resilience
 


 
Co-Dependent
 




 
Narcissists are ace manipulators, so it is difficult to maintain a strategic distance from their grasp. In what manner can victims of narcissistic abuse help themselves?
 


 
 
 


 
There are approaches to break liberated from the torment. The initial step is to comprehend that they are victims.
 


 
 
 


 
Note that victims of mental torment have particular traits. When they perceive these characteristics, they can proceed onward from their relationships.
 


 
 
 













 
What is Narcissistic Abuse Syndrome?
 


 
This syndrome leaves an injured individual inclination broken. Their abusers have misused them so altogether that they have a condition clinicians’ term Narcissistic Abuse Syndrome. It has a few names, including Trauma Associated Narcissistic Symptoms (TANS) and Post Traumatic Narcissism Syndrome (PTNS)
 


 
 
 


 
A lot of people who experience the ill effects of this syndrome don't understand it. Their unrest leaves them so emotionally scarred that they become negligent of the evil treatment.
 


 
 
 


 
Individuals with NVS, as a rule, feel mortified in light of the fact that their abusers constrained the shame onto them. Their abusers get them in a blame snare. They feel so answerable for their 'issues' that they become inclined to self-fault. Commonly, they feel little since they have gotten used to remaining in the shadows of their abusers.
 


 
 
 


 
At long last, those with NVS may create Stockholm Syndrome. Their abusers controlled them with the goal that they structure tight emotional bonds. The syndrome clarifies why victims have a convincing need to remain in their relationships, notwithstanding the abuse.
 


 
 
 













 
Characteristics of Narcissistic Abuse Syndrome
 


 
Victims need to comprehend the highlights of NVS with the goal that they can get a handle on what is befalling them. It will, at that point, become simpler for them to choose in the event that they are among those inclined to narcissistic abuse. The symptoms emulate those of PTSD (Post Traumatic Stress Disorder).
 


 
 
 


 
Victims, as a matter of first importance, experience flashbacks of the abuse. They may have a fear for their security and become particularly anxious. They may experience issues coming to choices. Thusly, they have expanded affectability and may check their surroundings for dangers, to such an extent that their conduct gets enthusiastic.
 


 
 
 


 
Wretchedness, fractiousness, and blame normally go with their anxiety. Victims may encounter these sentiments so unequivocally that they may hurt themselves. They additionally show symptoms of shirking.
 


 
 
 













 
Kinds of Victims
 


 
Seeing such oppressive conduct will support victims. So will knowing whether they are the sorts of people prone to become wellsprings of what analysts term Narcissistic Supply, this alludes to being a wellspring of sustenance for s narcissist's self-esteem.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Empaths
 


 
First on the rundown are Empaths. These people have lowliness, generally a positive characteristic. Be that as it may, their propensity to lower themselves makes them obvious objectives for narcissists.
 


 
Empaths are simple prey since they are self-giving up. They consider it to be their n to give. What they don't understand is that narcissists will take from them without response. Henceforth, they need to ensure themselves.
 


 
2. Individuals with Low Self-Esteem
 


 
Individuals with low self-esteem are likewise inclined to narcissistic abuse. They have restricting convictions, so it is simple for narcissists to wash them over with blame. They will, in general, expect that they merit the abuse and disregard it.
 


 
3. The Exhausted
 


 
These individuals were previous victims of narcissists. They have gotten so used to negative treatment that they let it pass. Along these lines, they are obvious objectives for abusers.
 


 
4. The profoundly hung
 


 
Anxious individuals are inclined to neurosis. Subsequently, they are well-suited for gaslighting. It is simple for narcissists to persuade them that their conduct isn't on par.
 


 
5. Those inclined to discouragement
 


 
Similarly, having discouragement makes an individual ready for the picking. Like the individuals who are depleted, they have gotten so used to the pessimism that they let it proceed.
 


 
6. Disliked Children
 


 
At long last, individuals whose guardians ignored them in their adolescence are inclined to narcissistic abuse. Since they long for adoration, they may value the consideration they get from anybody, including narcissists.
 


 
7. Mutually dependent people
 


 
Victims in mutually dependent relationships with narcissists will think that its difficult to recapture their opportunity. Codependency is when the two gatherings feel an unfortunate responsibility for one another. Narcissists may feel that their accomplices don't satisfy their needs, while victims will experience agonizing verbal and even physical abuse.
 


 
 
 













 
Proceeding onward from Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Adapting to conditions like NVS is a since quite a while ago drawn procedure, however important. Without doing as such, victims would always feel depleted and without trust. All in all, how might they proceed onward with their lives?
 


 
 
 


 
1. Recognize the abuse
 


 
Most importantly, victims ought to perceive harassing. They ought to ask themselves inquiries to assist themselves with perceiving its signs.
 


 
 
 


 
In the event that their mates or accomplices are narcissistic abusers, they are probably going to store or intrude on discussions.
 


 
 
 


 
They additionally will, in general, abuse social standards and have no regard for limits. Their self-important characters would champion; they would consistently anticipate particular treatment.
 


 
 
 


 
One of the signs of a narcissist is a propensity to control. They utilize their accomplices for selfish purposes.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Try not to attempt to change the abuser
 


 
Additionally, narcissists are not liable to need to enhance their inadequacies, so victims ought to do whatever it takes not to get them to change. They h to do whatever it takes not to improve their relationships in light of the fact that any endeavor to prevail upon obstinate narcissists will be useless. Love and consideration won't work.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Try not to feel frustrated about the narcissist
 


 
At last, victims should quit having sympathy for their narcissistic accomplices in light of the fact that the empathy would fill in as a wellspring of narcissistic inventory. Narcissists would benefit from it and intensify their conduct.
 


 
 
 


 
Victims of narcissistic abuse don't need to endure emotional tormenting until the end of time. When they understand that they are potential narcissistic stockpiles, they should settle on the best decisions for themselves.
 


 
 
 













 
Signs You're the Victim of a Narcissist
 


 
Is it true that you are in a relationship with somebody experiencing narcissistic personality disorder? Provided that this is true, odds are that you're the casualty of narcissistic abuse. Continue perusing for indications.
 


 
 
 


 
1. You're Depressed
 


 
It's difficult to remain positive when your accomplice persistently puts you down. In the event that you don't encounter anything, however, negligence and cynicism, chances are you're in a condition of misery.
 


 
 
 


 
Indications of sadness include:
 


 
•
       
Feeling miserable and shameful
 


 
•
       
Loss of intrigue
 


 
•
       
Heightened anxiety
 


 
•
       
Problems dozing and weariness
 


 
•
       
Irritability
 


 
•
       
Changes in weight
 


 
Misery can send you into an emotional and mental down winding. aOn the off chance that you begin to feel self-destructive, it might be ideal to look for proficient assistance.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Your Partner Lowers Your Self-esteem
 


 
Narcissists are known for bringing down the self-esteem of others.
 


 
 
 


 
By having low self-esteem, your accomplice can deal with you. In the event that you feel lesser than your accomplice, it's a lot simpler to control you.
 


 
 
 


 
In the event that your self-worth has endured a shot, you likely feel as though you can't get away from this terrible reality.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Nothing You Do Is Enough
 


 
Regardless of what you do, it's rarely sufficient. By corrupting and disparaging you, your accomplice picks up a favorable position.
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that your accomplice endorses of something you do, he/she is giving over some force. Ask yourself these inquiries.
 


 
•
       
Is my accomplice oblivious to my achievements?
 


 
•
       
Is my accomplice constantly negative?
 


 
•
       
Is my accomplice against lauding my activities?
 


 
If you addressed "yes" to these inquiries, you're the casualty of narcissistic abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
4. You're Convinced You're Going Crazy
 


 
A narcissist will say and effectively make you feel as though your musings aren't right. At the point when you begin to pick up lucidity of the circumstance, your accomplice will persuade you that it's all in your mind.
 


 
 
 


 
This method is known as gaslighting. Your accomplice will deliberately make you feel as though you are losing your marbles.
 


 
 
 


 
Gaslighting enables your accomplice to increase significantly more control.
 


 
 
 


 
5. It's Impossible to Leave
 


 
You've set aside an effort to consider it thoroughly. You've talked everything through with a dear companion. Similarly, as you're prepared to leave, your accomplice pulls you back in.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists are specialists at stretching their accomplices as far as possible. The minute you choose you've had enough, your accomplice transforms into a wad of appeal.
 


 
 
 


 
You get all the affection and consideration when you need to leave. In any case, when you remain, you're disregarded.
 


 
 
 













 
5 Tips for Neutralizing the Impacts of Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
The cycle of narcissistic abuse is disappointing and tiring. Something turns out badly, and your accomplice responds with abuse. Tired of being abused, you retaliate.
 


 
 
 


 
Your accomplice legitimizes the injurious conduct, and you surrender. At last, your accomplice feels encouraged and enabled.
 


 
 
 


 
The cycle proceeds.
 


 
 
 


 
Breaking the cycle is difficult yet not feasible. Being an unfortunate casualty doesn't make you frail! Here are five hints to transcend it.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Single out Your Battles
 


 
A narcissist wants to contend about everything without exception. As a casualty of narcissistic abuse, you're bound to participate in the contention.
 


 
 
 


 
In any case, in a narcissistic relationship, single out your fights. Is it worth contending over your morals and qualities?
 


 
 
 


 
Battling requires a great deal of mental and emotional energy. On the off chance that contention isn't justified, despite any potential benefits, don't draw in with your accomplice.
 


 
•
       
Stay quiet
 


 
•
       
Be mindful of your words and activities.
 


 
•
       
Disengage
 


 
 
 


 
2. Try not to hesitate to Speak the Truth
 


 
Your accomplice asserts that you never get things done around the house. Or then again, he/she asserts that you generally rationalize. On the off chance that you realize that those words aren't valid, challenge them!
 


 
 
 


 
Raise times when you have or haven't accomplished something. Try not to enable your accomplice's words to dominate relationship substances.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Give No Meaning to Spoken Words
 


 
A narcissistic accomplice will threaten and deprecate you.
 


 
 
 


 
He/she will make you feel as though you are, to a lesser degree, an individual. While words can be destructive, in this occurrence, your most logical option is to disregard them.
 


 
 
 


 
To remain positive in an unpleasant relationship:
 


 
•
       
Focus on your self-worth and self-esteem
 


 
•
       
Try to shut out or kill the antagonism.
 


 
•
       
Practice sound mantras
 


 
 
 


 
4. Plan Your Words
 


 
You comprehend what triggers your accomplice to respond with narcissistic abuse. In case of an encounter, realize what you have to state to defuse the circumstance.
 


 
 
 


 
Despite the fact that it appears to be senseless to get ready for a discussion, being readied beats another harsh day.
 


 
With a narcissist, you need to think before you talk. Else, you risk a significantly additionally harming contention.
 


 
 
 


 
5. Stay Positive
 


 
In spite of the fact that being the casualty of narcissist abuse can separate you, there's consistently time to develop yourself back. Remain positive and realize that you can overcome this predicament.
 


 
Backing for Victims of Narcissist Abuse
 


 
Is it appropriate to say that you are a casualty of a narcissist abuse? Is it appropriate to say that you are searching for help?
 


 
Provided that this is true, look at the Narcissistic Life.
 


 













 
CHAPTER 6: EMOTIONAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL REASON WHY VICTIMS STAY
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 













 
Why the bond with an abuser is hard to break
 


 
Since no relationship with a narcissist is ordinary, there will be nothing typical about the separation. In all actuality, except if an individual has encountered existence with a narc direct, they will never see precisely what you are experiencing. In this way, pay no mind to the unremitting "benevolent" guidance from companions and friends and family ("Why wouldn't you be able to leave!" or "I don't get you. Simply walk out!"). Just you and only you can compose the consummation of the story. The catch, in any case, is that you have to do it without blame or self-judgment. Having blame, shame, or self-judgment will just keep you waiting on the up and up. You should put it regardless of that so as to get this show on the road.
 


 
 
 


 
Comprehend that most of the practices that push us into emotional difficulty with a narc really originate from our great characteristics. Consider it… it's our inclination never to stop that makes us remain past shutting time, and, under ordinary conditions, we'd be commended for that! The equivalent goes for our readiness to excuse and our affinity for being humane and tolerant. An individual could surely have more terrible characteristics! The issue with a narc-circumstance is that none of this is ever responded, and this is the place is gets stirred up. The human cerebrum essentially isn't set up to have sentiments and feelings, so totally dismissed and, hence, the subject of why we stay turns into a genuine wellspring of individual tension. In this way, to begin, let's investigate only a couple of the many convoluted and insane reasons why we do might remain with a narcissistic abuser:
 


 
 
 


 
1. Because on the off chance that we could just cause them to comprehend, everything would work itself out. I don't think about you be that as it may, as the years passed, I turned out to be increasingly more fixated on making my ex – the narcissist – comprehend the terribleness of his own mind-boggling practices. His activities were frequently so pernicious that I thought definitely in the event that I could cause him to comprehend that pulling a month-long quiet treatment for reasons unknown at all was simply unacceptable, we could live cheerfully ever after. Clearly, this never occurred. I do accept that 95% of us remain in the relationship only somewhat more, enabling the narc to return only once again, for this very explanation. We imagine that maybe we didn't clarify it all around ok the last time or perhaps it's that terrible youth with a narcissistic mother that gets him a pass or who knows yet this time we're going to cause him to comprehend that he can't do that! So, we clarify and clarify – in some cases tranquility and here and there fiercely – that it's his crude wireless shenanigans, baffling vanishings and returns, and each one of those pathological falsehoods that are the foundation of the issues and reason for the separations. We figure that anybody with a large portion of a mind would comprehend that we are correct (in light of the fact that we are!) and give a valiant effort to fix it. All things considered, doesn't he need an ordinary relationship? So we clarify, argue, and even deal; however, all we get is the notorious clear gaze. And afterward, one more year passes by.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Because, all things considered, no one's ideal! Since we can never entirely comprehend what the narcissist is thinking when he's carrying on so seriously, we deal with a rationale to rationalize it. Maybe he's simply having an awful day, or possibly we truly were acting like show sovereigns or being excessively sensitive or envious. Despite the fact that, in every single past relationship (even those that finished severely), we easily forget feeling so unpleasantly uneasy, perhaps, this time, it truly IS us, and we should give the person a little leeway. Despite the fact that, in past relationships, we never felt constrained to be super sleuth agents about anything, maybe now we truly are making mountains out of molehills. All things considered, no one's ideal, isn't that so? So when the narcissist returns, we decide to pick our fights and forgive and never look back. And afterward, one more year passes by.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Because in all actuality, we never truly have any solid evidence of anything! How is it conceivable that, in spite of having quick spidey senses and astounding super-sleuth capacities, we can't ever appear to create unquestionable solid proof? Some may state Well, perhaps that is on the grounds that there is nothing to discover except for I state that is horse crap. Narcissists and sociopaths know EXACTLY how to prevent their universes from impacting. Mine would take a gander at me and state, "You can't demonstrate that." It's tied in with making conceivable deniability. A narc will dodge and evade and talk in conundrums and rebuff us for posing inquiries… all with the goal of hushing our doubts. Indeed, even our instinct (which NEVER lies) is no counterpart for this duplicity. A narcissist is to win on its own in the Game of Life. Everything – throughout the day, consistently – is about what he can escape it. He keeps his dirty tricks so on the down-low that even with proof dropping surrounding, he once in a while, if at any point, gets captured. What's more, since he realizes that we need (more than anything) to accept he is faithful, he's not actually stressed over it. To us, the proof we do have never is by all accounts sufficiently very. Along these lines, we remain in the relationship if just to wait for the one riddle piece that will be unquestionable… and one more year goes, unfortunately.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Because he, in every case, in the long run, returns so he truly should cherish me!! This is presumably our #1 purpose behind remaining with a narcissist, and it couldn't possibly be more off-base. In the event that the accomplice we love really cherished us back, he wouldn't disregard at all let leave and return again and again and over. My ex would vanish each year in October and not reemerge until after the new year, helpfully missing each significant occasion in the middle of and avoiding all related obligations. This person would truly disappear, and each time he did, I endured as though it was the first run through. Since he always returned, ordinarily faking amnesia with respect to why we at any point separated, I thought we were bound to be as one. That is to say, what fellow in their correct mind would continue returning again and again to somebody he didn't cherish, isn't that so? I figured doubtlessly one of his returns would stick. Once, flabbergasted that he was back, I requested to know why, in light of his history, I ought to try and think about it. To this, he declared, "Those days are finished!" and it was forceful persuading. In earlier years, his answers extended from "What does it make a difference? I’m here now" to a shrug of the shoulder, so this most current rebound from his best stuff gave me extraordinary expectation! At the point when the narcissist announces his "adoration," we basically need to accept. Tragically, we ceaselessly settle for pieces… and afterward, one more year passes by. For me, it was only nine brief a long time until the following October.
 


 
 
 


 
5. Because we basically need to perceive what the hell will occur straightaway. Stunningly better, when we've been in it sufficiently long to foresee the narc's best course of action, at that point, we remain to check whether what we've anticipated is going to materialize. It normally does, and afterward, being correct turns into the habit! Insane? Perhaps… however, yes, that is our main thing. And afterward, one more year passes by.
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
7: 
THE ABUSE CYCLE
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
For what reason does it appear once you are in it, it continues happening to abuse victims again and again regardless of how kind they are as individuals or how hard they attempt to keep every one of the individuals in their lives cheerful?
 


 
 
 


 
It is a continuous example of one individual or companion bunch having control over others because of their eagerness to utilize animal power hurt, lying, manipulation, and in any event, guaranteeing bogus exploitations themselves so as to socially and emotionally rule and rule over the mental, physical, and emotional existence of their favored substitute victims and targets.
 


 
 
 


 
The example of abuse is genuinely steady. After a damaging abuse situation happens, an injurious individual will very quickly begin denying or limiting an occurrence.
 


 
 
 


 
At that point comes the reasons when and on the off chance that they can't abstain from conceding something disturbing for an unfortunate casualty has really occurred. They will apologize and accuse move, doing everything they can to both discredit their objective and to abstain from assuming liability for their own through and through freedom decision activities.
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that they pull off hiding abuse where no one will think to look, the vacation and hovering stages start. They may disclose to you the amount they love you or begin to apologize all over themselves, trying to quiet you into confiding in them by revealing to you whatever story it is they think you need to hear.
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that somebody comes hovering around you subsequent to manhandling you, misleading you, or doing some other obnoxious thing like cheating or misdirecting, comprehend it is an enormous warning and cautioning sign that not exclusively is abuse occurring at the time by trickery, unquestionably progressively grievous offenses are yet to come.
 


 
 
 


 
A snappy check of a harsh individual's legitimate records and social media-based way of life propensities commonly uncovers cycles where they increment in privilege thinking, detonate into brutality, and are coaxed down to a less affected persona with the assistance of abuse empowering influences which give in to their requests.
 


 
 
 


 
In the realm of brain science, specialists prepared to work with Narcissistic Abuse victims are probably going to call this piece of an abuse cycle the "daily practice." Everything will appear to come back to typical for some time, including the damaging individual ordinarily putting forth jokes trying to mellow their objective just as convince the person in question (while conning them) of their supposed earnestness.
 


 
 
 


 
Following the daily schedule, the pressure stage continues once more. Statements of regret that were made become clear they were deceitful. From that point forward, it's an elusive slant as the narcissistic predator begins to get exhausted. Looking for a consideration fix with a shock of adrenaline, the abuser will generally intentionally attempt to make bedlam trying to have a consistent motivation behind why their stack can blow.
 


 
 
 


 
This may mean provoking a companion to have a reason to go out and cheat or something less evil like stirring up some dust intentionally then raging out of the house — not as a result of the contention but since what truly happened is an all the more fascinating companion welcomed them to a gathering that night and they truly didn't want to take YOU with for the night.
 


 
 
 


 
When the trigger stage has begun — with either an irate narcy individual flying into wrath or a teased objective completely agitated and panicked by their abuser setting them ready for scapegoating — there is once in a while any dialing things down or turning around the hands of time. The narcy individual looking for an emotional triumph in a skirmish of will or insight is their medication of decision, with sadism at the core of why a few people utilize individuals like expendable toys.
 


 
 
 


 
The general meaning of abuse is abuse. This is the reason we discuss abuse of office and force. It is the abuse of things. Be that as it may, what is abuse when coordinated towards individuals?
 


 
 
 


 
It is abusing individuals. Treating them the manner in which they don't merit.
 


 
 
 


 
In spite of the fact that "merit" can be taken to be relative in importance, most importantly, every individual should be treated with deference and nobility.
 


 
 
 


 
Each individual is one of a kind and significant, in this manner, ought to be given reasonable and deferential treatment. A few people appear to have an alternate comprehension of this. For them, not exclusively are their needs and needs significant. However, they must be best met through abusing others.
 


 
 
 


 
Such individuals are called abusers.
 


 
 
 


 
An abuser abuses you with an end goal to pick up and look after control. Nonetheless, his quest for control is, on occasion, outrageous, and he may wind up truly harming you. Now and again, the hurt prompts passing.
 


 
 
 


 
Be that as it may, exactly how does the abuse occur? Would you be able to remember it? Would you be able to maintain a strategic distance from it?
 


 
 
 


 
The Cycle of Abuse
 


 
Abuse ordinarily happens away from public scrutiny and isn't exceptionally simple to perceive. There are two fundamental purposes for this:
 


 
 
 


 
1. The abuser realizes how to cover up and lie – abusers are ace double-crossers, and they realize how to paint themselves in great light when out in the open. They will demonstrate themselves to be neighborly and supportive. Hence, it's hard to connect them with abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
2. The unfortunate casualty typically doesn't have the foggiest idea of what is happening – victims of abuse are generally confounded, not realizing that they are being abused. The explanation is on the grounds that a wide range of abuse starts at the mental and emotional levels.
 


 
At the point when this occurs, the injured individual's self-esteem is wrecked, and he turns into a manikin in the hands of the abuser. He steadily begins questioning his very own existence, and now, he truly can't perceive that what's going on is abuse.
 


 
In spite of the fact that perceiving abuse is troublesome, this article features the stages in question and mentions to you what occurs in them. Along these lines, you can perceive abuse. If you are encountering any of the signs depicted, at that point, you will realize which organize you are in and what you can do.
 


 
 
 













 
The root of the expression “Cycle of Abuse
”
 


 
The cycle of abuse was first hypothesized by Dr. Lenore Walker in 1979. This was in the wake of meeting 1,500 ladies who were overcomers of abusive behavior at home.
 


 
What she discovered was that despite the fact that the ladies described various stories, the accounts shared a comparative example.
 


 
 
 


 
There was a conspicuous cycle of how the abuse had occurred. Walker continued to build up the cycle of abuse hypothesis, which is as appeared in the picture underneath.
 


 
 
 


 
How about we take a proper look at these four phases of abuse and some genuine models. Sometimes, you will have the option to effortlessly distinguish abuse and perceive the circumstance that you or an unfortunate casualty is in.
 


 
 
 


 
Towards the end, you will discover that you don't need to be subjugated by this cycle. Not exclusively would you be able to break it, yet you can likewise carry on with a sans abuse life since you merit it.
 


 
 
 













 
1. Tension-building phase
 


 
This is the place the cycle starts. Regardless of all relationships having a lot of contention, clashes in a harsh relationship are rarely settled. This is on the grounds that something abusers never do is concede any off-base.
 


 
 
 


 
As clashes emerge in the relationship, yet they are not settled, a few things occur. These incorporate the abuser acting in detached forceful conduct. This is one of the reasons in which the unfortunate casualty gets befuddled on the grounds that the correspondence channels are basically shut.
 


 
 
 


 
As the tension develops, correspondence from the abuser gets poor. This makes the issue progressively obscure and indistinct. You are neither ready to pinpoint the issue nor its motivation, despite the fact that you're encountering its belongings.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
This presents you with an extremely tricky circumstance. Since, as an unfortunate casualty, you are probably detached, you lack the certainty to address the circumstance. You subsequently get worried within, and it turns out through your activities.
 


 
 
 


 
You become awkward as you approach your day by day exercises and are probably going to do things wrong. This is actually what the abuser is hanging tight for. 
 


 
 
 


 
You additionally become fearful and start effectively keeping away from things that may trigger viciousness or other undesirable activities from the abuser. Literally, you start tread lightly.
 


 
 
 


 
In spite of the fact that in each relationship, individuals stay away from the things which they realize their accomplices don't care for, for you, it isn't out of affection yet fear. This fear, to a great extent, adds to your failure to settle on cool headed choices, prompting activities incorrectly.
 


 
 
 













 
2. Incident phase
 


 
The tension that has developed will soon enough offer a route to an episode of abuse. This is the place the abuser showcases his outrage.
 


 
 
 


 
Contingent upon the abuser and how far the relationship has come, this episode may change.
 


 
 
 


 
It might be as "little" as an obnoxious ambush or as large as physical viciousness. Much of the time, physical abuse comes path later into the relationship, when the abuser has created control over you and is guaranteed of your consistency and failure to leave.
 


 
 
 


 
On the off chance that at the newborn child phases of the relationship, what may originate from the abuser is probably going to be brutal reactions of you. Upheavals of outrage, contending, and hollering may likewise happen. The entire reason for this is to put you down and lessen your self-esteem. This is significant for the abuser in order to oversee you.
 


 
 
 


 
Another normal occurrence to happen at this stage is censuring you for every one of the wrongs in the relationship. Indeed, even his responses. In spite of the fact that abusers once in a while concede bad behavior, if they do, at that point, they won't assume liability for it. They will rather put the fault on you.
 


 
 
 


 
They will consistently legitimize their activities by bringing up what you did. If you take a stab at having a discerning talk to determine clashes with an abuser, he will do everything to abandon the procedure. Abusers can't reason sensibly. This is chiefly out of preparing themselves to conceal their damages.
 


 
 
 


 
Terrorizing is additionally a piece of the episode phase. An abuser will scare you to show that he is correct while you are incorrect. All through the relationship, it will consistently be about him being correct.
 


 
 
 


 
In the minds of abusers, everything is normally about picking up control. In the event that they don't have control, at that point, nothing will run easily. Tragically, no measure of control fulfills them, also that their control is constantly practiced through harming others.
 


 
 
 













 
3. Reconciliation phase
 


 
The compromise phase comes after a harsh episode in light of the fact that the abuser is currently scared of the results of his activities against you.
 


 
 
 


 
As a rule, the abuser will be anxious about the possibility that you may leave. To maintain a strategic distance from that, they will show regret, which may be genuine or phony, just to persuade you not to leave.
 


 
 
 


 
Both the abuser and the unfortunate casualty have character traits that make this phase work similarly as the abuser plans. If you are probably going to acknowledge his statement of regret, it is frequently simply one more piece of the game. For the abuser, it is all strategic maneuvers.
 


 
 
 


 
Abusers happen to have extraordinary persuading power. This is anyway not the benevolent that works in incredible sales reps but rather one that is driven by their urgent need to control others. It is just when they have unlimited authority over everybody around them that they can get fulfillment.
 


 
 
 


 
The abuser will reveal to you that he is upset about what he did, and that the episode will never happen again. In the event that he recognizes his off-base conduct, he will, in all likelihood, deny its size. He will make light of the impacts of his activities or the mischief he has caused you.
 


 
 
 


 
Something different prone to occur in this stage is rationalizing his conduct. An abuser will consistently have a reason for why he did what he did. Also, a piece of that is the fault moving that he does. His activities are constantly a legitimate reaction to your own behavior.
 


 
 
 


 
On your part as the person in question, the explanation this stage succeeds and prompts the following one is your guilelessness. Lacking information about abuse basically makes you helpless. You have seen wrong treatment and coldblooded assaults; however, you can't pinpoint it as abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
Something different, almost certainly, you have low self-esteem. This, for the most part, originates from your childhood and the impacts of your previous existence before engaging with the abuser. This is the means by which you, as a matter of first importance, fell into his snare since abusers once in a while abuse sure individuals.
 


 
 
 


 
Individuals with low self-esteem are constantly, even unknowingly, looking for endorsement more than a certain individual. This makes the unfortunate casualty open to doing penances to satisfy others with an end goal to pick up their endorsement. This receptiveness to doing extraordinary penances is the thing that abusers search for as they "chase" for victims.
 


 
 
 


 
No different, not every person who is available to causing penances to can be abused. There are the individuals who can cause forfeits; however, they do have a firm sub respects to its degree.
 


 
 
 


 
Albeit such individuals will at first oblige the abuser since he acted like one who required assistance, they will before long face them on certain perspectives, which will leave the abuser detecting introduction. At this, the abuser will normally escape.
 


 
 
 


 
Simultaneously, understand that the manipulation did by abusers isn't anything but difficult to recognize. Except if you are educated about harsh tactics and are vigilant for them, you can fall injured individual.
 


 
 
 













 
4. Quiet phase
 


 
This phase of the abuse cycle and is intently attached to the compromise phase. It is likewise here and there alluded to as the special first night phase. This is because of the activities of the abuser at this stage. He essentially returns to the beguiling ways he started with.
 


 
 
 


 
As the name shows, this phase is characterized by quiet and tranquil occasions in the relationship. In that capacity, you are guaranteed that the injurious occurrence will never happen again—similarly as the abuser guarantees.
 


 
 
 


 
In any case, the quiet isn't everything that matters at this stage. This phase is truly similar to a wedding trip minute for you. With an end goal to eradicate the recollections of abuse from your mind, the abuser may go to significant lengths to paint a great image of himself.
 


 
 
 


 
Since he realizes you very well, he will try to do the things he realizes will fulfill you. He will place in the endeavors to give you that he is adoring and minding.
 


 
 
 


 
Two things will happen you at this stage:
 


 
 
 


 
1.
 
Enjoying the quiet
 – you are satisfied by the new development and start clutching the relationship, not needing it to self-destruct. This will be an indication for him that everything is great. Most, if not all, abuse victims are generally extremely cheerful that things will end up well. Recollect that in their souls, they are individuals who are eager to help and forfeit. You can't help in case you're not confident that things will be better. The endeavors by the abuser in this way pay off, and they gain the trust of the person in question—once more. Tragically, this is simply in preparation for the following abuse episode.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Self-accusing –
 as you appreciate the quiet and cherishing condition, you are simultaneously disguising what occurred before the quiet. At the earliest reference point, you accepted that the abuser was a decent individual. At that point, with the abuse, he always censured you and reprimanded you for his activities. With time, you have accepted his reactions. So, you presently start feeling that it's conceivable you're the person who causes the abuser to carry on the manner in which he does.
 


 
 
 


 
What's more, since you don't need the occurrences to rehash, you start "giving back" by doing what the abuser likes while keeping away from what he doesn't care for. What's going on is that you are adjusting while the abuser is getting used to pulling off it.
 


 
 
 













 
Why the abuse may not stop
 


 
You may believe that adjusting to any semblance of the abuser will stop the abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
One moment. As a matter of fact, you may simply be powering it.
 


 
 
 


 
Being a relationship arrangement, clashes will consistently emerge. Each contention acquires fears for the abuser that he may lose control of the circumstance.
 


 
 
 


 
To defend his control, which is the wellspring of his certainty and fulfillment, he needs to harden his standard. He needs to guarantee that he is completely regarded (really feared).
 


 
 
 


 
This must be accomplished through more episodes of abuse on the grounds that as indicated by the abuser, that is the main method for going about issues.
 


 
 
 













 
The Narcissistic Abuse Cycle: Idealize-Devalue-Discard-Hoover
 


 
Narcissistic abuse follows an exceptionally perceived example that, from the outset, shows up more comparative than various to the customary cycle of abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
In the idealization organize toward the start of the relationship, the narcissist puts their accomplice on a platform. The narcissist will give the accomplice over the top applause and consideration. This most optimized plan of attack the relationship and cases "perfect partner syndrome" and outrageous emotional holding that is hard to break.
 


 
 
 


 
Sooner or later, the narcissist's accomplice will tumble off the platform ordinarily because of no shortcoming of their own. Narcissists have particularly flimsy skin and believe irregular activities to be analyzed. Furthermore, they respond in a more unstable way to those apparent reactions than non-disordered individuals do.
 


 
The narcissist will start to consider him to be her accomplice as imperfect or even become exhausted once the accomplice starts to give indications of being a "genuine human." The debasement phase at that point starts. It is characterized by the boisterous attack, retaining, embarrassment, spreading, and different types of selling out with respect to the narcissist.
 


 
Then, the accomplice has no clue why the relationship has gone from so brilliant to such a bad dream.
 


 
 
 


 
In the long run, the narcissist will never again observe any an incentive in the accomplice, maybe if the accomplice is requesting to be treated with deference, for instance, or has responded to this downgrading such that the narcissist sees adversely. The narcissist may dispose of the accomplice and the relationship for another one with another person who is "new" that the individual in question can glorify.
 


 
 
 


 
Regularly these dispose of are transitory. The narcissists typically come back to "hoover" their accomplices over into snares with them; in the event that they become persuaded, there is as yet something to be picked up. This may happen even while the narcissist is amidst new covering relationships with others, and the cycle can proceed uncertainly until the accomplice has the solidarity to sever it.
 


 
 
 













 
Narcissistic Model of the Cycle of Abuse
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
This video clarifies an extended cycle that clarifies how our connections with the narcissists and their contorted perspective on the world reason them to rehash this example and once more.
 


 
 
 


 
Cycles of Abuse: Rising and Falling Tension
 


 
By contrasting the customary cycle of abuse and the narcissistic abuse cycle, it is clear there are a few similitudes. These basically concern the ascent and fall of tension inside the relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Rising Tension: Abusers in both the customary model and in the narcissistic cycle start to heighten abuse until there is a type of "occurrence" that parts of the bargains by the positive environment (either the "vicious scene" in the conventional model or the "downgrading" phase of narcissistic abuse). In the narcissistic cycle, there might be numerous occurrences of abuse of fluctuating sorts during the depreciation time frame before the acceleration to a dispose of and vanishing of the narcissist for a while.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Falling Tension: When narcissists come back to hoover, they by and by start to glorify their accomplices, there is a respite from the downgrading. In the customary model, the falling tension is characterized by a special night time span. In the two models, positive holding is advanced, which makes it hard for the abused accomplice to leave.
 


 
 
 


 
A closer assessment of what occurs inside a relationship with a narcissist to make the tension ascent and fall shows the significant qualifications between these relationships and conventional damaging relationships.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists Flip the Script and Inflict Further Forms of Psychological Abuse
 


 
Emotional wellness advisor Christine Hammond proposed another model of narcissistic abuse that considers the inspirations of narcissistic abusers. At the point when applied to the narcissistic cycle of abuse, it further features the difference between that cycle and the customary cycle.
 


 
 
 













 
Narcissist's Motivations in the Cycle of Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissist starts to feel compromised by something that their accomplice has done. This is the tipping moment that the abuse begins.
 


 
 
 


 
What her model adds to the comprehension of the narcissistic cycle of abuse is a more profound comprehension of why and how the conventional model of the cycle of abuse isn't satisfactory to clarify why individuals remain in relationships with narcissists.
 


 
 
 


 
The conventional model clarifies that accomplices in customarily oppressive relationships remain in the relationships on the grounds that the special night time frame persuades them that there is never again motivation to leave. The accomplices accept the abuse is finished. Abusers feel regret for their upheavals and, afterward, come back to attempt to charm their accomplices back with vows to change. This is the thing that kickstarts the special first night phase.
 


 
 
 


 
Despite the fact that accomplices in relationships with narcissists may likewise trust that the narcissist will change once the example rehashes, the narcissistic abuse cycle depicts how narcissists completely turn the tables to secure their accomplices through different strategies that are absent in customary damaging relationships.
 


 
 
 













 
Narcissists and the Games They Play
 


 
Narcissists feel defrauded by something that their accomplices have done. They believe they are advocated in treating their accomplices contrarily and rebuffing them or turning somewhere else for narcissistic stock.
 


 
 
 


 
The accomplice, in the interim, is confused. The more that the accomplice poses inquiries or makes requests to be treated with deference, the more the narcissist feels deceived and wronged.
 


 
 
 


 
In the long run, the narcissist will dismiss the accomplice. These outcomes in a quiet treatment or dispose of. The narcissist may take part in a slanderous attack against the individual they abused.
 


 
 
 


 
This is frequently not the finish of the relationship, in any case.
 


 
 
 


 
For what reason does the narcissist return? The individual needs consideration and the accomplice might be a simple wellspring of supply. It might stroke the narcissist's sense of self that they can pull off treating somebody so appallingly and afterward return so effectively.
 


 
 
 


 
The accomplice is mentally bound to the narcissist because of a large number of the depreciation tactics that have molded the person in question that what has happened is their issue, and the accomplice will attempt to mollify the narcissist if just "things will return to the manner in which they used to be."
 


 
 
 


 
This is something contrary to what occurs in a customary model where the abuser feels regret and endeavors to hold the relationship together. Narcissists, interestingly, once in a while, apologize or feel as though they have done anything incorrectly.
 


 
 
 


 
In the customary model, Walker takes note that the accomplices regularly feel angry about being secured in the relationship by this cycle.
 


 
 
 


 
This isn't so in narcissistic relationships. Not at all, like in the customary cycle of abuse, narcissists can conceal the reality through this example that abuse is in any event happening. Narcissists can make the accomplice feel liable for how the relationship has gone amiss.
 


 
 
 


 
Since they retain the narcissist's variant of occasions, victims of narcissists may regularly get abuse amnesia and have less negative feelings toward their very own abuser, an element arranged by the narcissistic abuse that is itself damaging.
 


 
 
 


 
The cycle proceeds through the proceeded with control of the accomplice's conduct by the narcissist through an extremely uncommon blend of emotional abuse tactics not seen in different sorts of abuse models.
 


 
 
 













 
How Narcissists Get Brainwashing their Victims
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic Brainwashing
 


 
A relationship with a narcissist includes savage and determined emotional abuse. Narcissists can do this by brainwashing their victims. They utilize an assortment of techniques so as to get control over their life partners. First, they "love bomb" their prey; at that point, they compromise, debase, move fault, condemn, control, loudly assault, overwhelm, blackmail, pull back, retain love and fondness, and gaslight their victims.
 


 
 
 


 
Self-proclaimed narcissist and creator of "Dangerous Self-Love, Narcissism Revisited," Sam Vaknin depicts how a narcissist abuses his unfortunate casualty:
 


 
 
 


 
"He invades her safeguards, breaks her self-certainty, befuddles and jumbles her, belittles and spoils her. He attacks her region, abuses her certainty, debilitates her assets, harms her friends and family, undermines her solidness and security, includes her in his jumpy perspectives, startles her out of her brains, retains love and sex from her, forestalls fulfillment and causes disappointment, embarrasses and affronts her secretly and out in the open, brings up her deficiencies, censures her abundantly and in a "logical and objective" way – and this is a halfway rundown. All the time, the narcissist demonstrations viciously in the pretense of an edified enthusiasm for the welfare of his injured individual. He plays the specialist in her psychopathology (absolutely conjured up by him). He acts the master to her need of direction, the avuncular or father figure, the instructor, the main genuine companion, the old, and the accomplished. This so as to debilitate her resistances and to lay attack to her deteriorating nerves. So unpretentious and noxious is the narcissistic variation of sadism that it likely could be viewed as the most perilous of all."
 


 
 
 


 
Love besieging
 


 
"Love besieging" is an endeavor to impact an individual by extravagant exhibitions of consideration and warmth. It has been utilized to allude to abusers in sentimental relationships giving their victims applause, blessings, and friendship in the beginning periods of a relationship. One unfortunate casualty portrays it as follows:
 


 
 
 


 
"The narcissist sweetheart idea the universe of me came to me for exhortation, and would do anything for me; she was so similar to me thus consummate until the splits started to appear. They can't keep up the veneer for exceptionally long. Be that as it may, they are aces, on the off chance that you don't know better, at getting you snared."
 


 
 
 


 
That sentiment of "affection" that you have is more exceptional than typical on the grounds that the narcissist first floods you with articulations of adoration, and afterward, they retain, and afterward, they give a little; over the long haul this progressions you-it's a type of manipulation, control, and brainwashing. There is no uncertainty that you have adored. However, narcissists can't cherish you back. What occurs in these sorts of relationships is that you get so made up for a lost time in the inclination that you don't tune in to the alerts that go off in your mind.
 


 
 
 


 
Corruption
 


 
Narcissists corrupt their victims and destroy their self-esteem, which can make protection from their control strategies troublesome. They use tactics, for example, mockery, scrutinizing, verbally abusing, censuring, deprecating, over the top accusing, shouting, undermining, and embarrassment. After some time, the steady verbal and emotional assaults debilitate the victims and dissolve their sense of self-certainty and self-esteem while it makes the narcissists feel all the more dominant and, henceforth, apply further control.
 


 
Boisterous attacks
 


 
This incorporates chiding, disparaging, condemning, verbally abusing, shouting, undermining, over the top accusing, and utilizing mockery and embarrassment. It likewise incorporates overstating your imperfections and putting you down out in the open. After some time, this kind of abuse dissolves your sense of self-certainty and self-worth.
 


 
Emotional Blackmail
 


 
Here the abuser plays on your fear, blame, empathy, values, or other "hot catches" to get what they need. This could incorporate dangers to cut off the association, the "brush off" or other fear tactics.
 


 
Showing Dominance
 


 
A Narcissist accepts and extends a mentality of being almighty and all-vanquishing, which can persuade the unfortunate casualty that opposing the narcissist is pointless. They should be in control of others, must have everything their way, and will fall back on dangers or some other techniques to accomplish accommodation. In the long run, the injured individual loses their self-regard.
 


 
Dangers If Victim Does Not Comply
 


 
Narcissists will advance sentiments of anxiety and gloom in their victims by making dangers and utilizing terrorizing. This urges the unfortunate casualty to submit to the absurd requests or tormenting of the narcissist.
 


 
Oppressive Expectations
 


 
The abuser places preposterous requests on you and needs you to set everything else aside (counting your kids) to keep an eye on their "significant" needs. It could be an interest for steady consideration, visit sex, or a necessity that you invest all your free energy with the individual. However, regardless of the amount you give, it's rarely enough. You are exposed to consistent censuring and upbraiding since you don't satisfy the entirety of this current individual's needs.
 


 
Isolation
 


 
Isolation denies the casualty of any social help, which decreases their capacity to stand up to. The narcissist will keep the unfortunate casualty ignorant of what's going on (for example, by assuming all-out responsibility for the family funds, making arrangements that are obscure to the person in question, lie about them to other people, etc.). This system prompts the injured individual getting reliant on the narcissist for approval and data. The narcissist will demand to control their accomplice's time and physical condition to attempt to check their normal conduct and sentiments of autonomy. They may demand their accomplice surrendering certain side interests, social or work exercises. They may even demand their accomplices move away with them to another area, which further segregates the injured individual from their family or companions.
 


 
Complete Control of Victim's Perceptions
 


 
Abusers may persuade the victims that parts of the unfortunate casualty's character or conduct aren't right, which takes the concentration off what the narcissist is doing. Utilizing isolation of the person in question, the narcissist would then be able to control what sort of data and boosts the unfortunate casualty approaches.
 


 
Unusual Responses
 


 
Exceptional state of mind changes or unexpected emotional upheavals is utilized to keep the unfortunate casualty agitated and on edge.
 


 
 
 


 
This conduct leaves the injured individual feeling like they are consistently anxious. They are continually watching for the unavoidable conclusion and can never recognize what's normal. They remain hyper-cautious, sitting tight for the other individual's next wrath or mind-set change. Living like this is very requesting, and anxiety is inciting, making the abused individual feel continually alarmed, agitated, and reeling.
 


 
Consistent Chaos
 


 
A narcissist may purposely begin contentions and be an inconsistent clash with others. They are regularly dependent on "show" since it makes fervor.
 


 
Gas-lighting
 


 
The narcissist will deny that specific occasions happened or that specific things were said. The injured individual knows contrastingly; however, the other individual will deny their discernment, memory, and mental stability. That makes them start to think they are insane or losing their mind.
 


 
Upholding Trivial Demands
 


 
They will make an enormous upheaval over paltry issues so as to condition the unfortunate casualty into building up a propensity for being consistent.
 


 
Infrequent Indulgences
 


 
The narcissist may give 'treats' or exhibit a benevolence to support and spur consistency with their requests.
 


 
 
 


 
At last, the unfortunate casualty is mentally conditioned to accept their accomplice is by one way or another remarkably savvy and all incredible; the injured individual feels it is pointless to oppose them. Actually, the narcissist is a broken, vindictive, and injurious person. Narcissists and different abusers utilize these techniques in light of the fact that these tactics are exceptionally compelling for accomplishing their objectives of manipulation and control.
 


 
 
 


 
The idealization, depreciation, dispose of phase; Gaslighting, Smear battles, The bogus self, and the True-self).
 


 
 
 


 
1. The Idealization-Devaluation-Discard Phase
 


 
Narcissists and those with antisocial traits will, in general, subject sentimental accomplices through three phases inside a relationship. The idealization phase (which regularly happens most firmly during the beginning times of dating or a relationship) includes putting you on a platform, making you the focal point of his/her reality, being in contact with you often, and giving you sweet talk and recognition. Be careful about steady messaging, shallow sweet talk, and needing to associate with you consistently. This is a method known as "adoration bombarding," and it is the manner by which most victims get sucked in: they are complemented by the steady consideration they get from the narcissist. You might be deceived believing that this implies a narcissist is really keen on you when, indeed, the individual is keen on making you subject to their consistent acclaim and consideration.
 


 
 
 


 
The degrading phase is ensuing to this idealization phase, and this is the point at which you're left asking why you were so unexpectedly pushed off the platform. The narcissist will out of nowhere begin to blow hot and cold, censuring you, clandestinely and obviously putting you down, contrasting you with others, stonewalling you, emotionally pulling back from you and giving you the quiet phase treatment when you've neglected to meet their outrageous "guidelines." Since the "hot" part of this phase depends on discontinuous fortification in which the narcissist gives you conflicting spurts of the idealization phase all through, you become persuaded that maybe you are to blame, and that you can "control" the narcissist's responses.
 


 
You are deceived into believing that on the off chance that you simply learn not to be so "destitute" or "tenacious," the narcissist will compensate you with the caring conduct the person exhibited in the first place. These are words that narcissists regularly use to belittle victims when abuse victims grieve the loss of the idealization phase or respond typically to being incited. It's a method to keep up control over your genuine emotional responses to their stonewalling, emotional withdrawal, and irregularity.
 


 
 
 


 
Tragically, it is during the degrading phase that a narcissist's actual self shows itself. You need to comprehend that the man or lady at the start of the relationship never really existed. The genuine nature is just currently starting to appear, so it will be a battle as you endeavor to accommodate the picture that the narcissist exhibited to you with their present conduct.
 


 
 
 


 
Despite the fact that the narcissist can be very possessive and envious over you since the person sees you like an item and a wellspring of narcissistic inventory, the narcissist is inclined to anticipating this conduct onto you. The narcissist causes you to appear as though the poor one as you respond to their withdrawal and retaining designs despite the fact that the desires for visit contact were set up right off the bat in the relationship by the narcissist himself.
 


 
 
 


 
During the dispose of phase, the narcissist surrenders their unfortunate casualty in the most horrendous, disparaging route conceivable to persuade the injured individual that the person is useless. This could extend from: leaving the unfortunate casualty for another darling, embarrassing the injured individual out in the open, unmitigatedly overlooking the accomplice for a significant stretch of time, being physically forceful and an entire scope of other belittling practices to convey to the injured individual that the person is never again significant.
 


 
 
 


 
Albeit "typical" relationships can end in a comparative this way too, and the difference is that the narcissist regularly makes it obvious the person plans to hurt you by giving you the quiet treatment, spreading bits of gossip about you, undermining you, offending you and affronting you during the dispose of phase. In contrast to "typical" accomplices, they guarantee that you never have a conclusion, and in the event that you choose to leave them, they may choose to stalk you to show that despite everything they have control.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Gaslighting
 


 
While sound relationships have space for deferential contradiction and thought of one's sentiments, with the narcissist, gaslighting and steady emotional refutation become the standard. Gaslighting is system abusers use to persuade you that your view of the abuse is erroneous. During the depreciation and dispose of phases, the narcissist will regularly refute and reprimand your feelings, and dislodge any fault of their abuse as your deficiency. Visit utilization of expressions, for example, "You incited me," "No doubt about it," "I never said that," or "You're paying attention to things as well" after the narcissists' injurious upheavals are normal and are utilized to gaslight you into feeling that the abuse is to be sure your shortcoming or that it never at any point occurred.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists are experts in making you question yourself and the abuse. This is the reason victims so frequently endure much after the cutting off of an association with a narcissist, in light of the fact that the emotional nullification they got from the narcissist made them feel feeble in their organization and recognitions. This self-question empowers them to remain inside oppressive relationships in any event, when obviously the relationship is a lethal one since they are directed to doubt their own senses and elucidations of occasions.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Slanderous attacks
 


 
Narcissists keep groups of concubines since they love to have their inner selves stroked, and they need consistent approval from the outside world to affirm their affected sense of self-significance and satisfy their requirement for over the top deference. This is the reason they are astute chameleons who are additionally accommodating people, transforming into whatever personality suits them in the circumstances with various kinds of individuals to get what they need.
 


 
 
 


 
Be careful with individuals who appear to shape-move out of nowhere before your eyes into various personas — this is a warning that they are not true in their collaborations with you and others. The narcissist will most likely start a slanderous attack against you not very long after the dispose of phase, so as to paint you as the unsteady one, and this is normally fruitful with the narcissist's encouraging group of people which likewise will, in general, comprise of different narcissists, accommodating people, empaths, just as individuals who are effectively enchanted.
 


 
 
 


 
This slanderous attack is utilized to achieve three things: 1) it delineates you as the abuser or flimsy individual and diverts your allegations of abuse; 2) it incites you into reacting, hence demonstrating your precariousness to others when attempting to contend their portrayal of you; and 3) fills in as a hoovering strategy where the narcissist looks to pull you once more into the injury of the relationship as you battle to accommodate the bits of gossip about you with who you really are by standing up against the allegations.
 


 
 
 


 
The best way to not get maneuvered into this strategy is by going full No Contact with both the narcissist and their collection of mistresses.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Triangulation
 


 
Solid relationships flourish with security; undesirable ones are loaded up with incitement, vulnerability, and unfaithfulness. Narcissists like to fabricate love triangles and get the assessments of others to approve their perspective. They do this to an unnecessary degree so as to play puppeteer to your feelings. In the book “Psychopath Free” by Peace, the technique for triangulation is talked about as a mainstream way the narcissist keeps up control over your feelings. Triangulation comprises bringing the nearness of someone else into the dynamic of the relationship, regardless of whether it be an ex-darling, a present fancy woman, a family member, or a total outsider.
 


 
 
 


 
This triangulation can occur over social media, face to face, or even through the narcissist's very own verbal records of the other lady or man. The narcissist depends on desire as a ground-breaking feeling that can make you go after their expressions of love, so provocative articulations like "I wish you'd be progressively similar to her," or "He needs me again into his life, I don't have a clue what to do" are intended to trigger the abuse injured individual into contending and feeling insecure about their situation in the narcissist's life.
 


 
 
 


 
Not at all, like sound relationships where desire is conveyed and managed in a beneficial way, the narcissist will put down your emotions and proceed with wrong teases and undertakings without even batting an eye. Meanwhile, Triangulation is the manner in which the narcissist keeps up control and holds you in line — you're so caught up with viewing for their consideration that you're more averse to concentrate on the warnings inside the relationship or searching for approaches to escape the relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
5. The bogus self and the genuine self.
 


 
The narcissist holes up behind the protection of a "bogus self," a development of characteristics and traits that the person in question, as a rule, presents to the outside world to pick up esteem and consideration. Because of this reinforcement, you are probably not going to appreciate the full degree of a narcissist's brutality and lack of sympathy until you are in the dispose of the phase. This can make it difficult to n who the narcissistic abuser genuinely is – the sweet, enchanting, and apparently repentant individual that shows up not long after the abuse, or the injurious accomplice who mocks, negates and deprecates you every day?
 


 
 
 


 
You endure a lot of intellectual cacophonies attempting to accommodate the fantasy the narcissist initially introduced to you with the tormenting practices the person subjects you to. So as to adapt to this psychological disharmony, you may censure yourself for their oppressive conduct and endeavor to "develop" yourself when you have done nothing incorrectly, just to maintain your confidence in the narcissist's bogus self during the degrading phase.
 


 
 
 


 
During the dispose of the phase, the narcissist uncovers the genuine self, and you get a look at the abuser that was hiding inside from the beginning. You give testimony regarding their chilly, insensitive indifference as you are disposed of. 
 


 
 
 


 
The manipulative, scheming appeal that existed in the first place is no more — rather, it is supplanted by the certified disdain that the narcissist felt for all of you along. It's obvious, and narcissists don't really feel sympathy for other people – so during the dispose of phase, they regularly feel nothing literally for you with the exception of the energy of having depleted another wellspring of supply. You were simply one more wellspring of the narcissistic stockpile, so don't trick yourself into believing that the supernatural association that existed initially was in any capacity genuine. It was a deception, much like the personality of the narcissist was a hallucination.
 


 
 
 


 
The time has come to get the pieces, go No Contact, recuperate, and push ahead. You were a casualty of narcissistic abuse, however, a survivor. Owning this double status as both unfortunate casualty and survivor licenses you to claim your organization after the abuse and to carry on with the existence you were intended to lead — one loaded up with self-care, self-love, regard, and empathy.
 


 
 
 


 
The improvement of codependency, recuperating for this codependency.
 


 
Codependency is a multigenerational issue, and it is common among families who are uninformed on the off chance that it. Useless families where guardians are overprotective, excessively dismissing or basic, a heavy drinker, and who have been exposed to physical/sexual abuse are bound to give codependency to their posterity. Fortunately, it is conceivable to recuperate from codependency, particularly if the individual knows about the mutually dependent traits. The accompanying strategies have been seen as profoundly compelling in recuperating from codependency.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Diminishing The Turmoil
 


 
Mutually dependent people experience a great deal of disturbance in their lives due to having the Big FOCUS on someone else. This prompt increment in anxiety, tension, and reduction in capacity to address their issues and impeded relationships. So as to diminish the degree of tension, one needs to return the emphasis on self. Therefore, by widening the viewpoint, the individual increases an understanding of how the individual and others have added to keep up the disturbance. Without this understanding, battling, contending, removing, becoming ill, and accusing others prop the strife up. At the point when the individual starts to pick up the understanding, he/she learns not to accuse others and starts to deal with wellbeing, mental prosperity, and self-awareness.
 


 
 
 


 
2. Humane Detachment
 


 
It alludes to just withdrawing from other issues without cutting off and being decisive as opposed to being latent or manipulative. It additionally suggests considering your very own needs and needs. Mutually dependent people will, in general, be in caretaking job, which is another type of control. They invest more energy in dealing with others and assuming liability for them. Truth be told, they get so profoundly engaged with others' lives that they keep them from developing. Caretaking starts with adoration and concern. For instance, an overprotective mother who is ignorant concerning see the requirement for the autonomy of her youngster or will, in general, salvage the kid by lying and concealing kid's awful practices. Merciful separation infers being emotionally present for the mate and not controlling another's life. It implies being there as a companion, tuning in, reacting, being thankful, and not fixing the issue or giving out arrangements.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Diminishing the need to control
 


 
Mutually dependent people will, in general, show a solid need to control individuals' practices, emotions, contemplations, and the result of the circumstances. So as to recoup from codependency, it is essential to move the concentration from the Big Problem and comprehend that one can't transform any other person. When mutually dependent individuals attempt to control others, they experience lost their internal reality and can't process their sentiments. Their emotions get derailed, stuffed, or over-communicated. Additionally, the inability to effectively control others brings about shame and builds the need to control. Self-esteem at that point starts to rely upon their controlling practices, and it turns into an endless loop and has an impossible to win finishing.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Commitment to Self Nurturing Activities
 


 
Research shows that mutually dependent people neglect to participate in self-supporting exercises, and this prompt increment in tension. Standard exercise, reflection, chuckling, having important companionships outside the essential relationships, and taking part in great correspondence encourage better self-esteem and furthermore decrease codependency on others.
 


 
 
 


 
5. Distinguishing proof and Expression of Feelings
 


 
Mutually dependent people will, in general, be distant from their sentiments. Because of living in broken families, they figure out how to clearly deny their privileges to sentiments and clandestinely quell them. This will, in general, make them to some degree numb, and they figure out how to abrogate or over-respond to emotions. Unexpressed sentiments start to raise emotional and physical ruckus like hypertension, ulcers, asthma. It is significant for mutually dependent individuals to painstakingly distinguish and express their sentiments so as to improve relationships, self-esteem, and develop closeness.
 


 
 
 


 
The following is the Feeling Script that can be utilized to express sentiments:
 


 
 
 


 
I feel______________________ (your sentiments)
 


 
 
 


 
At the point when you ___________________ (an activity)
 


 
 
 


 
because_______________________ (your reason)
 


 
 
 


 
I'd like you to please________________ (your demand)
 


 
 
 


 
6. Improving Boundaries
 


 
 
 


 
Mutually dependent people will, in general, have unfortunate, poor, free, or unbending limits. Limit alludes to an inner line that separates " Me" and the other individual. Limits are created in the group of the starting point. Guardians with poor limits will, in general, be discourteous and meddling of their youngsters' limits. They become a good example for their kids, who likewise wind up having undesirable limits. At the point when limits are not clear, the individual gropes blended in with others. At the opposite end are inflexible limits, which allude to walling yourself off for fear of deserting.
 


 
 
 


 
Mutually dependent people need to figure out how to deal with themselves and know about their novel needs and needs. Limits create as we characterize our bill of rights, respect, and worth ourselves. This sense of self is fundamental for closeness. With free and inflexible limits, mutually dependent individuals will, in general, incline toward one another for their parity and can't immovably adjust themselves all alone. With great and solid limits, two individuals stand one next to the other associated by common want, yet each immovably adjusted on their own feet.
 


 
 
 


 
6. Creating Values of Openness, Honesty, and Willingness
 


 
Mutually dependent people should be straightforward with their sentiments and respect themselves. Transparency alludes to being emotionally present, a capacity to set aside assumptions and sentiments, and truly to fit and tune in to what someone else is stating. It additionally implies being adaptable as opposed to being unbending with requests and desires. Ability alludes to one's ability to attempt various ways to deal with living and reacting and furthermore exhibit the eagerness to roll out wanted improvements.
 


 
 
 


 
7. Congruity 
 


 
Mutually dependent individuals are regularly incongruent in giving messages as they will, in general, be withdrawn from their existence and furthermore will, in general, veil their sentiments. We figure out how to be incongruent in families in which outrage isn't endured or having a feeling isn't alright. In this manner, it is urgent to have congruity is what the individual thinks, feels, and passes on. Non-verbal communication can uncover the genuine sentiments of the individual, for instance, a mother who is furious with the youngster for breaking an antique blossom container yet attempting to shroud her emotions. In any case, her non-verbal communication will convey to the kid that the mother is irate. As grown-ups, we figure out how to deny and smother our sentiments. These emotions are pushed down and are uncovered nonverbally in non-verbal communication. Mutually dependent people should be mindful and focus on their emotions and have congruity in their correspondence.
 


 
 
 


 
8. Dealing with Self Esteem
 


 
Solid individuals realize that they are significant in any event when they commit an error, are gone up against by an irate individual, cheated, dismissed by a sweetheart, companion, kid, or chief. Their self-esteem stays flawless in the face of antagonistic circumstances. Mutually dependent people lack high self-esteem as they are not in contact with their very own existence. They have to respect their internal identity by acknowledgment, assuming liability as opposed to setting needs and needs aside, and worth themselves as one of a kind people as opposed to attempting to form themselves to be another person. They additionally need to quit criticizing themselves.
 


 
 
 


 
Mutually dependent people additionally should be progressively confident and figure out how to make a differentiation among necessities and needs. Also, they have to express sentiments utilizing "I" proclamation versus "you' articulations which pass on fault and make the other individual feel assaulted and cautious. It is additionally essential to be explicit with their needs since individuals experience issues reacting to general solicitations. It is likewise imperative to realize that requesting social changes is more practical than requesting the attitudinal change. 
 


 













 
CHAPTER 8: HOW TO RAISE YOUR SELF-ESTEEM
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Nothing is a higher priority than how you feel and consider yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
A high assessment about yourself and what your identity is and what you do and fundamentally an affection for yourself is likewise something that individuals frequently miss or have excessively little of in the present society.
 


 
 
 


 
In any case, why is constructing and having the option to keep up high self-esteem so significant?
 


 
 
 


 
Life gets less complex and lighter.
 


 
 
 


 
At the point when you like or love yourself all the more, than things just become simpler.
 


 
 
 


 
When your assessment of yourself goes up, then you'll quit attempting so enthusiastically to get approval and consideration from others.
 


 
 
 


 
Thus, you become less destitute, and your inward life turns out to be substantially less of an emotional, exciting ride dependent on what individuals may think or state about you today or this week.
 


 
 
 













 
Less self-harm
 


 
The vast majority's most noticeably awful adversaries are themselves. By raising your self-esteem up, you'll feel additionally meriting beneficial things throughout everyday life.
 


 
 
 


 
Thus, you'll follow them all the more regularly and with more inspiration. Also, when you get them, then you'll be much more averse to surrender to self-question or to self-damage in unobtrusive or not all that unpretentious ways.
 


 
 
 


 
You'll be progressively appealing in any relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
With better self-esteem, you'll get the advantages recorded previously. You'll be progressively steady and ready to deal with intense occasions better. You'll be not so much poor but rather more of a characteristic provider.
 


 
 
 


 
Being with you becomes easier and a lighter involvement in much less show, contentions, or battles dependent on little or nothing.
 


 
 
 


 
And the entirety of this is appealing in any relationship, not make any difference on the off chance that it is with a companion, at work, or with an accomplice.
 


 
 
 


 
So those are the absolute most significant whys.
 


 
 
 


 
1. Express stop to your internal pundit
 


 
A decent spot to begin with raising your self-esteem is by figuring out how to deal with and to supplant the voice of your own inward pundit.
 


 
 
 


 
We, as a whole, have an internal pundit.
 


 
 
 


 
It can prod you on to complete things or to get things done to pick up acknowledgment from the individuals throughout your life. And yet it will drag your self-esteem down.
 


 
 
 


 
This inward voice murmurs or yells ruinous contemplations in your mind. Contemplations like for instance:
 


 

      
You are lethargic and messy, presently get the chance to work.
 


 

      
You aren't acceptable at your position at all, and somebody will make sense of that and toss you out.
 


 

      
You are more regrettable or uglier than your companion/colleague/accomplice.
 


 
 
 


 
You don't need to acknowledge this, however. There are approaches to limit that basic voice and to supplant it with progressively supportive musings. You can change how you see yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
One approach to do so is essential to state stop at whatever point the pundit speaks up in your mind.
 


 
 
 


 
You can do this by making a stop-word or stop-express.
 


 
 
 


 
As the pundit says something – in your mind – yell: STOP!
 


 
 
 


 
Or, on the other hand, utilize my top pick: No, no, no, we are not going there!
 


 
 
 


 
Or then again concoct an expression or word that you like that stops the train of the idea driven by the inward pundit.
 


 
 
 


 
At that point, pull together your musings to something progressively useful, like arranging what you need to have for supper or your strategy for the following soccer match.
 


 
 
 


 
Over the long haul, it additionally encourages a ton to discover preferable approaches to spur yourself over tuning in to your internal pundit. So how about we proceed onward to that…
 


 
 
 


 
2. Utilize more advantageous inspiration propensities
 


 
To make the internal pundit less valuable for yourself and that voice more fragile and simultaneously propel yourself to make a move and raise your self-esteem, it positively has sound inspiration propensities.
 


 
 
 


 
A not many that I have used to supplant and top off a significant part of the spot that the internal pundit once held in my mind are these:
 


 

      
Remind yourself of the advantages. A basic, however ground-breaking approach to spur yourself and to keep that inspiration up day by day is to record the profoundly felt advantages you will get from following this new way or arriving at an objective.
 


 

      
Like for instance, showing signs of improvement shape and having more energy for your children and the individuals near you. Or then again getting more cash and through that having the option to go with the adoration for your life and experience superb new things together.
 


 

      
At the point when your rundown is done at that point, spare it and put it in someplace where you will see it consistently, for example, in your workspace or on your ice chest.
 


 

      
Refocus on doing what YOU super prefer to do. At the point when you ridiculously like accomplishing something, then the inspiration to do that thing tends to come pretty consequently. At the point when you truly need something in life, then it additionally gets simpler to push through any inward obstruction you feel.
 


 

      
So, if you lose your inspiration, ask yourself: Am I doing what I truly need to do? On the off chance that not and in the event that conceivable, at that point, pull together and start taking a shot at that significant thing.
 


 

      
After you have utilized your stop-word or expression center around one of these techniques, after sometimes, it will end up being a leaning, and your inward pundit will spring up much less frequently.
 


 
 
 


 
3. Take a brief self-thankfulness break
 


 
This is a straightforward and fun propensity. Also, on the off chance that you go through only two minutes on it consistently for a month, then it can have a tremendous effect.
 


 
 
 


 
This is what you do:
 


 
 
 


 
Take a full breath, slow down, and pose yourself this inquiry: what are 3 things I can value about myself?
 


 
 
 


 
A couple of models that have come up when I have used to this activity are that I:
 


 

      
Help many individuals every day through what I compose.
 


 

      
It can make individuals giggle and disregard their difficulties.
 


 

      
Am extremely attentive and minding with regards to our felines.
 


 
These things don't need to be large things.
 


 
 
 


 
Perhaps simply that you listened completely for a couple of moments to somebody who required it today. That you went for a solid stroll or bicycle ride after work as opposed to being lethargic. That you are a minding and kind individual by and large.
 


 
 
 


 
These brief breaks don't just form self-esteem over the long haul; however, you can likewise turn a negative mindset around and reload you with a great deal of positive energy once more.
 


 
 
 


 
4. Record 3 things at night that you can value about yourself
 


 
This is a variety of the propensity above, and consolidating both of them can be extra incredible for two lifts in self-esteem a day.
 


 
 
 


 
On the other hand, you may basically like to utilize this variety toward the finish of your day when you possess some free energy for yourself to save.
 


 
Youi have to ask yourself the inquiry from the last segment:
 


 
What are 3 things I can value about myself?
 


 
Record your answers each night in a diary made out of paper or on your PC/advanced mobile phone.
 


 
A decent additional advantage of recording it is that following half a month, and you can peruse every one of the responses to remain positive and get a decent self-esteem lift and change in context on days when you may require it the most.
 


 
 
 


 
5. Make the best decision
 


 
At the point when you do what you where it counts, believe is the best activity, then you raise and reinforce your self-esteem.
 


 
 
 


 
It may be a little thing like getting up from the sofa and heading off to the exercise center. It could be to be understanding rather than critical in a circumstance.
 


 
 
 


 
Or on the other hand, to quit stressing or feeling frustrated about yourself and spotlight on the chances and appreciation for what you really have.
 


 
 
 


 
It isn't, in every case, simple to do. Or, on the other hand, even to comprehend what the correct thing is. Be that as it may, maintaining attention on it and doing it admirably well has a large effect both in the outcomes you get and for how you consider yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
One tip that makes it simpler to remain reliable with making the best choice is to attempt to take a couple of such activities promptly in the day like, for instance, offering somebody a commendation, having a sound breakfast, and working out.
 


 
 
 


 
This establishes the pace for the remainder of your day.
 


 
 
 


 
6. Supplant the perfectionism
 


 
Barely any idea propensities can be so ruinous in day by day life as perfectionism.
 


 
 
 


 
It can incapacitate you from making a move since you become so terrified of not satisfying some standard. Thus, you delay, and you don't get the outcomes you need. This will make your self-esteem sink.
 


 
 
 


 
Or on the other hand, you make a move however are never or once in a while happy with what you achieved and your own exhibition.
 


 
 
 


 
Thus, your sentiment and emotions about yourself become increasingly negative, and your inspiration to make a move dives.
 


 
 
 


 
How might you beat perfectionism?
 


 
 
 


 
A couple of things that truly helped me are:
 


 

      
Go for adequate. At the point when you focus on flawlessness, then that generally ends up in an undertaking or an errand failing to be done. So essentially go for adequate. Try not to blame it so as to slack off. 
 


 

      
Remember that getting tied up with fantasies of flawlessness will hurt you and the individuals throughout your life. This basic reminder that life isn't caring for in a film, a tune, or a book can be acceptable rude awakening at whatever point you are fantasizing of flawlessness. Since reality can conflict with your desires when they are crazy and hurt or even conceivably lead as far as possible of relationships, occupations, extends, etc.
 


 
 
 


 
7. Handle missteps and disappointments in an increasingly positive manner
 


 
If you go outside of your usual range of familiarity, in the event that you attempt to achieve whatever is really important, at that point you will bumble and fall en route.
 


 
 
 


 
Also, that is OK. It is ordinary. It is the thing that individuals that accomplished something that really made a difference have done all through all ages. Regardless of whether we don't generally catch wind of it as much as we find out about their triumphs.
 


 
 
 


 
So, recall that. What's more, when you falter attempt this:
 


 

      
Be your very own closest companion. Rather than whipping yourself, ask yourself: How might my companion/parent bolster me and help me in this circumstance? At that point, get things done and converse with yourself like the individual in question would. It does not allow you to fall into a pit of hopelessness and encourages you to be progressively productive after the primary beginning torment of a slip-up or disappointment begins to scatter.
 


 

      
Find the upside. Another approach to be increasingly valuable in this sort of circumstance is to concentrate on good faith and openings. Furthermore, what is one open door I can discover in this circumstance? This will assist you with changing your perspective and ideally not hit a similar knock a little further, not far off.
 


 
 
 


 
8. Be kinder toward others
 


 
At the point when you are kinder towards others, you will, in general, treat and consider yourself in a kinder way as well. Furthermore, the manner in which you treat others is the means by which they will, in general, treat you over the long haul.
 


 
 
 


 
So, center around being benevolent in your day by day life.
 


 
 
 


 
You can, for instance:
 


 

      
Just be there and tune in as you let somebody vent.
 


 

      
Hold up the entryway for the following individual.
 


 

      
Let somebody into your path while driving.
 


 

      
Encourage a companion or a relative when they are questionable or unmotivated.
 


 

      
Take a couple of moments to assist somebody with an excursion in a commonsense manner.
 


 

      
Share what has helped you in a troublesome circumstance on social media, a digital broadcast, or all alone blog.
 


 
 
 


 
9. Have a go at something new
 


 
At the point when you have a go at something new when you challenge yourself in a little or greater manner and go outside of your customary range of familiarity, then your assessment of yourself goes up.
 


 
 
 


 
You might not have done whatever you did in a breathtaking or extraordinary manner; however, you, at any rate, attempted as opposed to neglecting to move and sitting idle.
 


 
 
 


 
Also, that is something to acknowledge about yourself, and it can assist you with waking up as you escape a trench.
 


 
 
 


 
So, go outside of your usual range of familiarity routinely. Try not to anticipate anything, simply reveal to yourself that you will give something a shot.
 


 
 
 


 
And afterward on you can do something very similar a couple of more occasions and improve your own presentation.
 


 
 
 


 
What's more, as usual, in the event that it feels excessively startling or awkward, at that point, don't whip yourself. Step forward rather by tenderly bumping yourself into movement.
 


 
 
 


 
10. Quit falling into the correlation trap
 


 
At the point when you analyze your life, yourself, and what you need to others' lives and what they have, then you have a ruinous propensity on your hands.
 


 
 
 


 
Since you can always lose, there is consistently somebody who has more or is superior to you at something on the planet. There are consistently individuals in front of you.
 


 
 
 


 
So, supplant that propensity with something better.
 


 
 
 


 
Take a gander at how far you have made significant progress. Contrast yourself with yourself. Concentrate on you. On your outcomes. Also, on how you can and how you have improved your outcomes.
 


 
 
 


 
This will both persuade you and raise your self-esteem.
 


 
 
 


 
11. Invest more energy with strong individuals
 (and less time with ruinous individuals)
 


 
Regardless of whether you center around being kinder towards others (and yourself) and on supplanting a perfectionism propensity, it will be difficult to keep your self-esteem up if the most significant impacts throughout your life drag it down on every day or week after week premise.
 


 
 
 


 
So, cause changes in the information you to get.
 


 
 
 


 
Decide to invest less energy with individuals who are apprehensive fussbudgets, horrible or unsupportive you had always wanted or objectives.
 


 
 
 


 
Furthermore, invest more energy with positive, elevating individuals who have increasingly human and kinder gauges and perspectives about things.
 


 
 
 


 
Furthermore, consider what you read, tune in to, and observe as well. Invest less energy in a web discussion, with perusing a magazine or viewing a TV-appear on the off chance that you feel it makes you uncertain of yourself and on the off chance that it makes you feel all the more contrarily towards yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
At that point, invest the energy you used to spend on this data source on, for instance, understanding books, online journals, sites, and tuning in to digital broadcasts that help you and that make you like yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
12. Recall the whys of high self-esteem
 


 
What is a straightforward method to remain predictable with accomplishing something? As referenced above: to recollect the most significant reasons why you are doing it.
 


 
 
 


 
So, remind yourself of the whys toward the beginning of this article to grab remain roused to chip away at your self-esteem and to make it a fundamental need.
 


 
 
 


 
Doing this straightforward thing and remembering these ground-breaking reasons has done miracles for me. I trust it can do likewise for you.
 


 













 
CHAPTER 
9: 
THE HEALING
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism is hard to analyze and treat. Likewise, with all personality issues, the narcissistic traits an individual has existed on a continuum. Not all individuals with narcissism are the equivalent, and treatment approaches shift from individual to person. This article is composed as a fundamental guide for treating an individual who either self-recognizes as narcissistic or one you distinguish as having narcissism.
 


 
Note the steps underneath may be rehashed again and again, and not really all together.
 


 
 
 













 
STAGE 1: ESCAPING
 


 
Healing from narcissistic abuse can be a long, painful, and exhausting road. There are countless hurdles that litter the way towards complete recovery, and you need to be careful not to get caught in them.   Keeping your goal in mind can help reduce the chances of falling into these roadblocks.  But there are a     few other strategies you might want to try out to help you achieve healing.
 


 
What Are Traumatic Bonds?
 


 
A traumatic bond happens when you are engaged with a harsh relationship, and the abuser turns into a basic piece of your life. Oppressive connections are normal, and the insights are disturbing. As estimated, 15% of ladies and 4% of men have encountered damage because of IPV (Intimate Partner Violence), which incorporates assault, physical brutality, and stalking. Undoubtedly, numerous individuals in these connections battled to leave their accomplices for an assortment of reasons. Maybe they were apprehensive their accomplice would hurt them. Possibly they stayed in light of the fact that they had youngsters. In any case, one of the basic purposes behind remaining in an oppressive relationship is the longing for adoration and the repetitive guarantees of approval and friendship.
 


 
Abuse occurs in a cycle. Living with (or offering space too) an abuser isn't in every case terrible, nor in every case great. On the off chance that you were dealt with inadequately all through a relationship, you likely wouldn't remain. There are numerous oppressive connections where the abuser treats the injured individual merciful now and again (typically after an injurious episode). The abused figures out how to follow the "rules" of their abuser in the relationship until the following "love" minute. Be that as it may, actually, abuse isn't genuine love.
 


 
Traumatic bonding is a marvel where the injured individual feels associated with their abuser dependent on connection, and hormones that are being actuated in the midst of the abuse. During the unpleasant focuses on the relationship, the unfortunate casualty has raised cortisol levels. The unfortunate casualty feels like they're on edge, imagining that they might be harmed or relinquished by their abuser in the event that they don't hear them out. They're frantically looking for the prize hormone dopamine, which is a joy synthetic. At the point when the abuser gives the unfortunate casualty fondness, they're remunerated with dopamine, which further fortifies the traumatic bond. How would you break the cycle? The unfortunate casualty can look for help as treatment, or individual guiding to start finding a way to leave the relationship and beginning to mend. 
 


 
 
 


 
The most effective method to Break Free from Traumatic Bonds
 


 
It is crucial to comprehend and recollect that the abuser is centered exclusively on keeping up control over their unfortunate casualty. They will utilize whatever strategies they can - physical abuse, isolation, and mental manipulation, verbal debasement - so as to state complete control of an individual. The incredible association which comes because of the irregular highs and lows felt by the injured individual makes it hard for them to break free, especially if the unfortunate casualty has gotten totally reliant on them for their 'positive' encounters. This may have created after some time as the injured individual has gotten progressively disengaged and maybe monetarily needy, and the abuser has acted in minding ways also. Be that as it may, comprehend that these cheerful and fun encounters don't mirror a genuine change in the abuser. The hidden fierceness and requirement for force and control over others are profoundly established and don't travel every which way. Undoubtedly, the great occasions are, to a greater degree a smokescreen, making it harder for the injured individual to see the genuine idea of the abuser, and guard against the traumatic bond.
 


 
At the point when the injured individual understands that the abuser is in the mission for force and control and that the individual in question isn't just overwhelmed with feeling or committing an error, it will assist them with separating from the inward perplexity they have been controlled to accept and consider them to be as essentially destructive. When an injured individual comprehends the genuine hidden expectations of the abuser, they can start to see and deal with their reactions all the more adequately. They can think about leaving. While an unexpected snappy flight isn't constantly conceivable, the injured individual can start to build up some inside protection from the idea that they're powerless, insufficient, or unfit. Recall that this definition has been given by another person, and it is a falsehood grounded on the abuser's self-intrigue. The victims can start to see that they can reclassify themselves, their esteem, and comprehend that opportunity is completely inside their own control. They can leave the abuser inside them, and with the correct assistance, direction, and bolster, they can break liberated from their abuser and figure out how to carry on with an all the more satisfying existence without a damaging, controlling nearness.
 


 
Obviously, to numerous victims, it is never as basic as to simply exit and never think back - a long way from it. Leaving a harsh mate may cause fear or trigger sentiments of vacancy or loss of bearing. The injured individual may feel as if nobody else could comprehend their difficulty, and they may take longer to come back to their damaging accomplice, looking for some type of goals or change. Victims may feel as if they have to see their abuser "one final time," which offers the abuser another opportunity to control and make bogus guarantees, which would then be able to transform into another time of vicious conduct.
 


 
Abusers will never show signs of change, regardless of their vacant guarantees. Perceive that victims don't come back to their abusers through sentimental connection; however, through distress and hatred. The ability to change their conditions is constantly present. It very well may be hard to settle on the choice to quit being an unfortunate casualty. However, it is rarely incomprehensible.
 


 
If you are encountering a harsh relationship, take a stab at discovering more writing to find out about it to all the more likely comprehend what is befalling you. There are books and articles accessible in your open library, with respect to both physical and obnoxiously harsh connections. You need not look at them and take them home; you can peruse in the library for 60 minutes (or anyway long you need). On the off chance that you can connect with an instructor for help, you might have the option to discover one in your general vicinity or even a stroll in center contingent upon your area. Another option is web-based directing stages that can address your issues for secrecy and planning. Regardless, realize that there is help out there.
 


 
 
 













 
STAGE 2: HOW TO BECOME INDIVIDUALS
 


 
You're going to have low points, and this is a reality you need to accept. Sometimes, the pain and the anger might be overwhelming, making you feel like you'd want to do nothing more than just lie down and sulk.  Don't worry, it happens.
 


 
Riding the motions of recovery and allowing your feelings to strike will let you heal more effectively instead of suppressing them and trying to push them back. Remember, repressed feelings will surface later on in uglier ways.   So be sure to let them out as they come and resolve them as soon as they surface so you can be free of them.
 


 
Rushing yourself through recovery and forcing yourself to feel okay might work for now.     But triggers can cause certain emotions to rise back up through your system. These unaddressed emotions can make you feel like you're right back at square one,  making it difficult to move through the process truly.
 


 
Don't force yourself into feeling anything, and don't pretend to be okay. Emotions are healthy and shouldn't be seen as nuances that need to be silenced. Love yourself enough to know that the way you feel is completely valid and appropriate, and nurse yourself back to proper emotional health one day at a time.
 


 
 
 


 
A Pleasing Personality
 


 
Narcissists have a knack for making themselves look exceptionally flawless to the public.  They're friendly, smiley, and charming, making new acquaintances feel comfortable in their familiar and amiable aura. They tend to make you feel good about yourself even right off the bat, which might cause you to think that they genuinely like you, too.
 


 
They will draw attention towards themselves by talking about their most esteemed accomplishments, which may endear you to them even more.   The idea that this person is friendly and successful makes them even more admirable. Essentially, their entire persona makes you want to be their friend, be close to them, and be associated with them in whatever little way possible.
 


 
This is because we as humans have a natural tendency to think that associating with successful, smart, beautiful, or ‘ideal’ people will somehow uplift our own image.      
 


 
A good way to pick out a narcissist would be to assess their persona and how well you know them.   Is there any bad news about who they are?  Have you heard any stories that talk about any possible negative things they've done or said? Or are they completely polished and blemish-free?  If you notice that a person seems too good to be true, they probably are.
 


 
 
 


 
When it’s Necessary
 


 
There are what you might call 'levels' of worth in a narcissist's mind. People who obviously have more money, success, or are considered more physically appealing are acknowledged as 'superior' in a narcissist's mind, so these people obviously receive the best treatment narcissists have to offer. People who fall within the same financial, success,           and beauty bracket are considered equals and are treated the same. Those who fall slightly below the narcissist's self-evaluation are still deserving of praise and good treatment, but they're awarded on a conditional basis. That is, these people need to do something in order to deserve the narcissist's approval and praise.
 


 
Finally, there are people of zero interest to the narcissist. These are average everyday individuals who are seen as unnecessary and irrelevant, so narcissists won't bother being nice or spending effort to show their good side.
 


 
For instance, a narcissist might lash out disproportionately if the coffee shop barista makes the mistake of adding cream to their order.  The narcissist might call the cashier at a grocery store    'lazy' or   'dumb' for taking too long, checking out the items in their cart.  They might insult the customer support specialist on the other end of the line if they aren't able to provide a solution fast enough.
 


 
When it comes to pleasing people and seeking admiration, a narcissist will only spend effort trying to appease people that they know will always be in their circle of contacts.  After all, why try to win over a cashier that you're not likely to meet again in the future? That's why many menial workers often get the brunt of a   narcissist's bad attitude, even if this is their first encounter.
 


 
 
 













 
STAGE 3: BREAKING REDUNDANCY
 


 
All too often, we find ourselves feeling uncomfortable and awkward being alone.    That's why we end up forcing relationships and squeezing ourselves into cliques in order to simply not be alone.  But this longing to be a part of something in fear of being by yourself can spark the beginning of narcissistic abuse. Wanting to be a part of something makes us prone to the 'us versus them' ideology since that would apparently make us a part of something elite.
 


 
Learning to enjoy your own company will teach you to rely on yourself for confidence, happiness, and comfort.  Being on your own teaches you that you don't need anyone to be content with what you have and where you are. And finally, it teaches you that you don't need to force yourself into friendships or relationships that might not be best for you.
 


 
Once you discover what you truly enjoy by spending time with yourself, it becomes easier to see the things that you don't need. So, if and when a narcissist does approach you, you’ll be able to pick up on their tactics and see that it's not something that particularly satisfies anything in you.  You can validate yourself, you can complement yourself, and you can make yourself feel important, so you won't fall for their manipulation and dirty tactics.
 


 
 
 













 
STAGE 4: MEDITATION
 


 
Mindfulness is the initial step and should help by giving your companion a familiarity with how he really feels, as long as it is a typified type of mindfulness or substantial practice. He would then be able to proceed onward to different practices, for example, Zen meditation, which instructs drive control, being the capacity to hold negative feelings without turning them inwards (restraint) or impacting outwards (carrying on). This is then an increasingly steady base to begin taking a shot at heart-opening (bodhicitta) rehearses where your companion will figure out how to interface outwards with others, seeing/sympathizing with that their torment is equivalent to his and changing his point of view on life. Through these practices, he can likewise work with exemplified trauma that will assist him with beginning to work through his initial educational encounters and, in the end (with difficult work and constancy), be liberated from them.
 


 
Meditation can't clear the mind basically on the grounds that that is absurd. This is really perhaps the greatest legend about meditation, and numerous individuals think they misunderstood meditation since they can't clear their minds. A mind is made to have contemplations, that is his obligation, and that is the reason it is beyond the realm of imagination to expect to be alive without considerations. It is conceivable to know about contemplations and designs and lose their quality on our consideration and conduct.
 


 
In this way, it allows first simply to make this obvious - to clear the mind doesn't intend to erase contemplations (since that is preposterous). To clear the mind intends to be liberated from everything that shows up in our mind. We should remind ourselves of the temporary idea of considerations and that we are far beyond our contemplations. Meditation is an apparatus to accomplish that.
 


 
During meditation an individual practices to perceive contemplations and notification how they travel every which way. Somebody who has narcissistic contemplations will practice watching his mind to see those considerations, without a desire to dispose of them, simply enabling them to be as they may be.
 


 
Likewise, it is essential to rehearse mindfulness in a day by day life. That way, to see circumstances wherein those considerations emerge, without the need to evacuate those contemplations, simply concede they showed up, watch them and acknowledge them as they seem to be. We can say that, so as to turn out to be liberated from narcissistic contemplations, an individual initially should see what is that what he doesn't care for, just as to see his craving to dispose of those considerations he doesn't care for.
 


 
The objective shouldn't be to be without contemplations (let me remind you once more, that is beyond the realm of imagination), yet to concede yourself that you have narcissistic musings and be alright when they show up in your mind. With ordinary meditation and rehearsing mindfulness, you will get a chance to act not in a narcissistic manner and to turn into a companion with your musings.
 


 
 
 


 
Musings are constantly present. You don't have a decision with respect to that. Try not to battle them, since you can't win. What you can do is to change your frame of mind towards musings. Be a scientist, be keen on your narcissistic contemplations, compose a journal, reflect. Just by isolating your consideration from your musings, you can turn out to be free.
 


 
Mindful meditation helps end enduring. It isn't for relieving individual imperfections, and one is on an inappropriate way on the off chance that he/she attempts to rehearse for an) improving as an individual b) to dispose of something c) building up an individual quality d) and so forth you get the thought. Pondering is for understanding things better; to have the option to watch contemplations, sentiments, feelings, mental procedures, connections to circumstances, individuals, or different items. It's best not having any objectives when plunking down. Simply reflect.
 


 
 
 


 
It is additionally worth referencing that there are times when meditation apparently compounds the situation for some time. One must have self-order to explore through difficult occasions. Be cautious when to propose somebody to take a stab at contemplating, if by any means.
 


 
Basic Buddhist practice: selfless giving. Give time, consideration, work, nourishment, cash, anything he/she can save. It's imperative to do it in a manner, so nothing is normal, consequently (not in any case a "thank you" or anything). This training does wonders in an enduring mind and is a lot simpler to follow than meditation conventions.
 


 
 
 













 
STAGE 5: EVOLUTION OF THE TRUE SELF
 


 
The crucial mappings are what cause the necessity for the guarded personas. Consider design triggers or affixes that are pushed when someone causes what is known as "narcissistic damage." Here are some customary triggers experienced by individuals identified with narcissism:
 


 
•
       
Feelings of emotional give up
 


 
•
       
Feelings of inside lack
 


 
•
       
Feelings of lack of control or security
 


 
•
       
Sense of emotional hardship
 


 
•
       
Fear of hatred or shame
 


 
Through both occupation exhibiting and psychoeducation, you can show an individual with narcissism the prerequisite for re-youngster raising the early association wounds they have experienced.
 


 
It is difficult to perceive these concealed triggers since you are working with someone who may have low information and who may be emotionally "isolated from" or "blocked" from feeling these vulnerable and destroying sentiments. You will most likely experience a cautious mode before you perceive the fundamental "root" of the issue. Grasp that the fundamental emotional experience the individual with narcissism is keeping up a vital good way from is a sense of shame. Rather than experience this sense of shame, the individual "flips" into a protective mode.
 


 
It is basic to help the individual with narcissism to manage these concealed assumptions of shame by showing self-compassion and offering sound self-mitigating strategies. Also, as you remain in the association with the individual, being accessible with them as they set out to "go there," they will in a perfect world make sense of how to experience and process through social "malicious existences."
 


 
 
 













 
STAGE 6: DEVELOP A RECOVERY JOURNAL
 


 
Like losing weight or building up your savings, healing from narcissistic abuse is a process. It doesn't happen overnight. So, you need to stay dedicated throughout the journey. And one of the ways that you can do that is by keeping track of your progress with a journal or a diary.
 


 
Writing down how you feel on certain days can make it easier to ruminate your deeper emotions.  Numerous studies have found that writing enhances the thought process, allowing you to piece apart your feelings to put them into context. It also helps to ask yourself questions regarding the information you've written. Why do you feel this way?    What can you do to resolve these negative emotions?  These are simple prompts that can help you thrive emotionally.
 


 
On top of that, being able to read back on the way you might have felt in the past can encourage you to keep moving forward. For instance, if you read your first entry and compare how you felt, then with how you feel today, you might notice significant positive changes. Seeing how far you've come, you may feel far more empowered to keep on treading the road to recovery.
 


 
 
 


 
The fact that it is fundamental to mend the inward universe of the individual with narcissism, it is additionally essential to distinguish the entirety of the individual's "main concern practices" and start a "program of recuperation." basically, treat the narcissistic symptoms as a feature of a fixation of sorts that should be placed abating.
 


 
 
 


 
Here is a list of things to go on the abstinent ("no-fly zone") rundown of the individual with narcissism:
 


 
•
       
Entitlement
 


 
•
       
Blame
 


 
•
       
Womanizing
 


 
•
       
Substance abuse
 


 
•
       
Yelling
 


 
•
       
Silent medicines
 


 
•
       
Dramatic exits
 


 
•
       
Passive-forceful practices
 


 
•
       
Manipulation
 


 
•
       
Defensiveness
 


 
 
 


 
Help the individual recognize their own "go-to" strategies for self-security.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
As should be obvious, helping an individual with narcissism to mend is a difficult undertaking. While you are working inside this relationship, ensure you deal with yourself. I will end by offering these last expressions of guidance for self-care:
 


 
•
       
Require and model regard.
 


 
•
       
Consult frequently; question after every session.
 


 
•
       
Exercise and deal with your physical wellbeing.
 


 
•
       
Do not customize the practices of individuals with narcissism.
 


 
•
       
If you feel protective, back off, take a full breath, change something.
 


 
•
       
Do not have a force battle with the individual you're attempting to help.
 


 
 
 


 
Keep in mind: While it takes difficult work to assist an individual with narcissistic characteristics, there is little to be picked up from working harder than they do.
 


 













 
CONCLUSION
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism is a personality disorder in which individuals have an over-expanded sense of their own significance, unreasonable self-centeredness, and a lack of sympathy for other people. Personality disorders are conditions in which individuals have traits, or characteristics that cause them to feel and carry on in manners that have a contrary, social effect limit their capacity to work in relationships, and point of confinement their capacity in different parts of their life, for example, work, school, or funds. A narcissist is somebody who shows the characteristics of narcissism.
 


 
The primary characteristic or attribute of this disorder is a selfish distraction with himself or herself and their own inclinations, yearnings, needs, achievement, and how the person in question is seen by others. People with milder types of narcissism, or who have some narcissistic traits, can work well in the public arena in specific callings despite the fact that they, by and large, still experience issues with relational relations and keeping up solid relationships.
 


 
There is a critical difference between individuals showing narcissistic traits and those people with a narcissistic personality disorder. The individuals with narcissistic traits are regularly seen as egotistical, sure, and self-focused however, they don't have the overstated or pompous self-view of their capacities that an individual with a narcissistic personality disorder has.
 


 













 
BOOK 7
 


 
Narcissism and Codependency
 


 
 
 


 
 


 















 


 
Introduction
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Personality disorder refers to an anomaly in the personality of an individual that makes you act in a manner that deviates from the established norms. Such disorders can make it quite difficult for one to establish normal relationships with other people while in some cases, personality disorders might result in adverse effects to other people in relationships with the affected persons. There are various causes of personality disorders with some relating to the environment that a person is subjected to while, in other cases, such disorders might be genetic in nature.
 


 
One of the more prevalent personality disorders is narcissism. Narcissism is a personality disorder that entails a person having an inflated sense of themselves. Such people tend to believe that they are more important than others because of one reason or the other. For instance, some people might be tempted to believe that they are more superior to others because of the nature of their job, while others might suffer this disorder on account of their parental heritage. All in all, narcissistic personality disorder can have potential adverse effects on the lives of the people who are related to the individual in one way or the other. Narcissistic personality disorder might result in someone doing something out of the ordinary just in order to attract attention. 
 















 
There are various types of narcissistic personality disorders, including overt narcissistic disorder, covert narcissistic disorder, psychopathic narcissistic disorder, and toxic narcissistic personality disorder among others. All these disorders have distinct characteristics that are exhibited by the person who is affected by the disorder in question. It is important to note that some of the disorders might be tolerated while in some cases such as toxic personality and psychopathic narcissisms, the best thing to do is to avoid the affected individual altogether. This is because the two aforementioned narcissistic personality disorders can actually result in direct harm to the person or the people involved. For instance, a toxic narcissist is someone who will invariably have a negative effect on your life such as make you lose your job. This chapter will introduce you to narcissistic personality disorder, highlight the types of narcissistic personalities, discuss the social causes of narcissistic personality, and finally, discuss the nature of narcissistic personalities in the family setting and in relationships.



















Chapter 1: What is Narcissism?
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism and Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
There are various types of personality disorders that affect many people out there, one such disorder is narcissism. Narcissism is a personality disorder that entails a person focusing too much on their own individuality at the expense of many other things. A narcissist is, therefore, more concerned with what is in it for them and pays little attention to the needs of those around them. One of the reasons why people with narcissism personality disorder focus too much on their individuality is because of their heightened sense of self-importance. The inherent mindset of a narcissist individual is that they think that they are more important than the rest of the people around them. They go through their lives believing in this fallacy, and it tends to impact the nature of relationships that they have with the people around them. For instance, a narcissist person involved in an intimate relationship with another person will tend to focus more on their own needs, desires, and aspirations while overlooking the needs and aspirations of their partner.
 


 
There are several defining characteristics of narcissist personality disorder, with one of the most notable ones being a high sense of insecurity. Narcissist individuals usually tend to use their inflated self-image as a mask to hide their insecurity. They are the sort of people who would exhibit extreme reactions to any kind of criticism if it comes from a genuine place. Furthermore, people with a narcissist personality disorder will rarely admit to any form of wrongdoing. Instead, they most often than not blame their shortcomings on other people. 
 


 
The heightened sense of self-importance makes many narcissistic people prefer the status quo. In many cases, such people enjoy a relatively higher social status than the people around them. Most of them, therefore, end up being preoccupied with maintaining the status quo, whereby they want to remain at the top while at the same time ensuring that everybody else remains at the bottom. Unfortunately, some might be willing to do just about anything in order to maintain this status quo.
 


 
Finally, narcissists usually prefer to have just about everything done the way they prefer since they believe that their ideas or opinions are much superior to those of other people. For this reason, many people not afflicted with this kind of personality disorder will tend to give in to the demands of the narcissist person just so that they can avert any potential conflict that may arise in case they fail to do so.
 


 
 
 


 
What is Narcissistic Abuse?
 


 
Most often than not, narcissistic individuals exhibit various types of behavior, with some constituting psychological and emotional abuse. It is important to have an understanding of some of the types of narcissistic abuse in order for one to know if they are being subjected to such abuse. Although there are many forms of narcissistic abuse, some of the most common types of abuse include: intimidation, trivializing, isolation, restraint, aggression, and endangerment. All the aforementioned types of narcissistic abuse can have very significant effects on the people involved. For instance, intimidation may result in loss of self-esteem on the victim of the abuse since they are made to constantly feel like they are in an unsafe environment. On the other hand, trivialization is also equally harmful since it might cause a person to doubt their ideas and opinions on important issues. The overall outcome of all of the aforementioned forms of abuse is that they result in the abuser feeling that they have the upper hand while the victim is made to feel belittled and that their opinions do not matter.
 
 


 
Intimidation
 


 
Intimidation is one of the most popular forms of abuse, and it entails instilling a sense of fear on the other person. For instance, a narcissistic person will use fear as a tool to manipulate another person to do something exactly the way they want. In a relationship, a narcissistic partner can threaten to leave unless the other partner agrees to certain predetermined terms that they have put in place. Intimidation in any form can undermine the quality of any relationship whether intimate or otherwise. A good example would be employees who only seem to go out of their way to work hard because their employer constantly threatens to fire them. Such employees will most certainly end up disliking their employer and will quit the company as soon another job opportunity comes along.
 


 
Intimidation constitutes a direct threat. A look at some of the other forms of narcissistic abuse reveals that most of them do not constitute a direct threat. For instance, a person might endanger the life of another without making a direct demand from them in terms of it is that they want. However, when it comes to intimidation, the threat is direct. Intimidation usually takes the form asking someone to do something and offering a stern warning that failure to do so will result in severe consequences on their part. The main goal of intimidation just as is the case with the other forms of narcissistic abuse is to make someone feel obliged to do something on account of possible dire consequences on their part in case they fail to do so. 
 


 
Intimidation may also be applied based on the behavior of the person in question. For example, someone may request you into something but with a look on their face that seems to say, ‘you better do this or else you will deeply regret.’ Implied intimidation might have consequences that could be as severe as an expressed intimidation.
 
 


 
Trivializing
 
 


 
In addition to intimidation, the second form of narcissistic abuse is trivializing. When you trivialize the thoughts or ideas of another person, you make them feel less important. For example, a colleague might come up with a genuine idea of how the company can make more money, but for one reason or the other, you come up with another suggestion that seems to undermine the viability of the previous suggestion put forward by your colleague. In case you are doing so deliberately, then you might be exhibiting signs of narcissistic abuse. 
 


 
The main objective of a narcissist is to make another person feel inferior while uplifting themselves. Constant trivializing of the ideas expressed by other people is considered one of the main forms of narcissistic personality disorder. It diminishes the overall self-esteem of the other person making the person with the personality disorder feel superior. For instance, when someone tells you do not have what it takes to achieve a certain objective. They are trying to dissuade you from trying since they know that if you try, the chances are that you may end up succeeding and become more ‘important’ than them, which happens to be their greatest fear.
 
 


 
Aggression
 


 
Aggression is also another form of narcissistic behavior. Aggression in this context refers to being unnecessary angry towards another person. Anger within the mindset of a person with a narcissistic personality is seen as a tool that can be used to control another person, especially if they want to manipulate them to behave in a certain manner. Aggressive behavior and anger, in particular, can take the shape of someone over-reacting to a situation that is mundane. The narcissistic person might, for instance, be unapproachable for days because someone has done something that is against their wishes. 
 


 
There are many shapes that anger can take. At times, it might involve the silent treatment whereby one partner ends not talking to the other for extended periods of time. Similarly, anger can also involve yelling or swearing to another person. Loud yelling to another person is usually meant to make them feel powerless and more inclined to abide by the wishes of the person with the disorder, and this is what makes it a form of abuse with respect to narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
Endangerment
 


 
When you endanger someone, you are basically putting them in unsafe situations that can potentially threaten their lives. Endangerment is considered a form of abuse as far as the narcissistic individual is concerned. The end game is to make another person feel so insecure and thus give in to your demands. 
 


 
Endangerment can take two forms, and these are direct and indirect endangerment. Direct endangerment involves threatening the life of someone that you want to gain control of. For instance, a narcissistic person might want to ensure that all shareholders of a company vote in a certain manner. In order to do this, the person may opt to send life-threatening emails to all shareholders with a view of influencing their voting decisions. This is a form of direct endangerment since it threatens the life of the affected individual. Indirect endangerment on the other hand usually involves threatening the lives of the people around the target person. For instance, one might threaten to kidnap the child of someone as a way of influencing their behavior.
 
 


 
Stalking
 


 
Stalking is also another form of endangerment is that entails following another person with a view of making them feel scared. In some cases, the stalker might end up doing no harm, but, in many cases, stalkers have actually been known to physically attack the person who they are stalking. No matter the form of endangerment exhibited by a narcissistic individual, this behavior is deemed to be abusive because it tends to unduly influence the behavior of another person.
 


 
In some cases, the objective of the stalker might seem innocent, as is the case with celebrities. Such stalkers are usually obsessed with the person in question, and so they try to be as close to them as possible. They might end up breaking into the house of the person they are interested in, hanging around their car while they are away just to feel close to that person. Be that as it may, all forms of stalking are considered to be narcissistic behavior. This is due to the fact that the stalker is concerned with their own needs, which may be to threaten the other person or to feel close to them. The stalker is unmoved by the fact that their behavior can result in fear and extreme discomfort on the part of the person they are pursuing, and this underscores their narcissistic personality.
 
 


 
Verbal Abuse
 


 
Verbal abuse refers to the use of harsh and abusive language on other people. Verbal abuse is also a form of narcissistic abuse that is commonly employed with this form of personality disorder. Many people who use abusive language tend to do so in order to make the other person feel insecure about themselves and their capabilities. For instance, someone might refer to you as ‘stupid’ or an ‘idiot’ even though they are well aware that that is not the case. However, you might end up feeling that you do not have what it takes to attain a certain objective on account of the abusive words thrown your way by the narcissistic person. 
 


 
Verbal abuse is usually considered to be a form of extreme narcissistic behavior on the part of the perpetrator. This is because it is a direct abusive involving the use of abusive words that are designed to undermine the self-esteem of another person. Furthermore, many people who are subjected to verbal abuse end up staying with the narcissistic person since they do not even have the confidence and much-needed self-esteem that will allow them to move onto the next relationship.  
 


 
Master manipulation credentials of narcissistic people have made it much easier for them to embrace this form of abuse. They will use it against you whenever they want something from or simply when they need to make you feel small while elevating themselves. It is also important to note that narcissistic individuals will also want you to go down to their level by prompting an abusive response from you. For this reason, you should never give in to the trap. Instead of replying with abusive words, it is advisable to simply maintain your calm and try to put your point across with uttermost restraint. By doing so, you will end up revealing them for who they really are, and this will negate their ill objectives.
 


 
 
 


 
Sadistic Behavior
 


 
Sadism means to delight in the pain or misfortune of other people. Many people who are narcissists also exhibit sadistic behavior. This implies that such people are happy when others are in pain. For instance, they may find some sort of abnormal joy from your physical pain occasioned by an illness. Similarly, a narcissist can also find happiness in your emotional pain occasioned by the loss of a job or failure to attain a personal goal. 
 


 
Sadism is considered a form of extreme anti-social behavior that can morph into many things. For a person with a narcissistic personality disorder, their tendency towards sadism can actually make them take proactive steps in instigating your pain. For example, they may orchestrate your downfall in your career or workplace so that they can derive some joy in your unfortunate experience.
 


 
When all is said and done, it is important to remember that narcissism and narcissistic abuse to be in particular is perpetuated by people who are insecure about themselves. These people will want to establish control over you, influence the manner in which you think intimidate you and at times, hurt you. Their overall goal is for them to remain superior over you so as to mask their own insecurity. However, with this knowledge and understanding, you are in a position to flip the script quite literally. This is because; you will know how to behave around such people so as not to empower them. For instance, you can recognize when someone is using anger, intimidation, and abusive words as tools to influence your thinking. You can choose not to give in to their manipulative ways, such as not spending too much time doubting yourself just because someone called you an idiot. By doing so, you will end up thriving in life and attaining your true potential thus negating the objectives of the narcissist people.
 


 
 
 


 
Behavior That Can Enhance Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Whenever you are confronted with a narcissistic person, there are several behavioral aspects on your part that can serve to perpetuate this behavior. First and foremost, trying to appease the narcissist should be the last thing you should do. Giving in to the demands of someone simply because you want to make them happy will only encourage them to make more unreasonable demands as they try to control you and assert their influence over you.
 


 
Secondly, you should not plead with the abusive person. In case you know you are in the right, you can try and calmly state your position and why you think you should have your way instead of pleading with someone who seems to be unreasonable. Pleading lends credence to the position held by the narcissist, and it will only serve to make them more insistent on having their way.
 


 
Retreating is also another thing that you should totally avoid when dealing with a narcissistic individual. Retreating in this context, implies letting the other person have their way even when you know it is not the right thing to do. When you constantly retreat and fail to argue your case, a narcissist will take your decision for weakness and continue to exploit this weakness as they assert their dominance and authority over you 
 


 
As earlier stated, threats and intimidation are some of the most preferred methods by narcissists to assert their control over others. To this end, it could be very tempting for you to want to make a counter-threat. However, this can be a costly mistake, especially if you do not have the will or capability to follow through with your counter threats. This is because; counter threats will only serve to embolden the narcissistic person with potentially severe consequences. They may, for instance, decide to do something that is designed to have much more adverse effects as compared to their previous threats.  However, you can offer some counter threats in a situation where you know that your security is guaranteed and that you really have what it takes to implement your threats. 
 


 
Finally, you should avoid self-blame and self-pity at all costs. The two aforementioned behaviors on your art make up the ultimate objective of the narcissist. When you start blaming yourself for everything, including things that you did not do, you end feeling inadequate and unable to carry on with your life. This will make it much easier for the narcissistic person to continue controlling and disempowering you.
 


 
 
 


 
How to Deal with Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Many people will be presented with situations where they will have to deal with some type of narcissistic abuse or the other. For this reason, it is important to know how to goa bout dealing with this type of abuse. First and foremost, it is important to be able to confront directly your abuser. Direct confrontation does not necessarily mean arguing with them. Instead, direct confrontation entails standing your ground and making your point calmly and precisely. 
 


 
Direct confrontation might also entail dealing with any negative impact that the abuse might have had on your life. For instance, if you have developed low self-esteem on account of previous abuse, you should accept this fact and actively look for ways of improving your self-esteem. You should let go of the past and move on with your life.
 
 


 
Be Assertive in Everything you Do
 


 
Assertiveness refers to resoluteness in your thoughts and decisions. You should always be assertive about what you want and what it is that you do not want. General assertiveness in life is very important since it makes other people respect you and the opinions that you have. Assertiveness also makes it quite difficult for others to take advantage of you since they know that they are not likely to succeed
 
 


 
Know Your Rights as an Individual
 


 
It is also important to know your rights, especially when confronted by a narcissistic person. Ideally, the narcissistic person will want to have their way, and this might not necessarily be the position held by you. For this reason, it is important to have a clear understanding of your rights since it is only by knowing these rights that you will be able to effectively challenge the other person’s position. For instance, if your immediate supervisor at the workplace constantly insists that you should perform duties that are outside your mandate, only so that they can look good to their superiors, then you can go ahead and say no to them and effectively argue your case.
 


 















Chapter 2: Social and Personality Models of Narcissism
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
There are various models and theories that seek to describe narcissism as a personality disorder. First and foremost, the issue regarding the origin of narcissism is one that has been debated over time. Many psychologists seem to be in agreement that narcissism started as a result of the industrialization wave that hit the western world in the mid-nineteenth century.  Industrial revolution refers to a period in time when much of the Western world experienced a significant economic boom as a result of deliberate investment in industries. 
 


 
The enhanced economic status of many people occasioned by industrialization saw a lot of people change their perspective on what constituted success. Many people within the confines of western society started seeing success more as a personal concept as opposed to a societal one. This implies that people tended to focus more on their own individual success in the pursuit of the same. This brought to the fray a culture of individuality that entailed people focusing more on themselves, their pursuits, and objectives as opposed to focusing on their wider society. Eventually, the habit of focusing too much on individual needs and almost completely ignoring the needs of the wider society resulted in the development of a unique personality disorder that is now commonly referred to as narcissism.
 


 
 
 


 
The Need for Enhanced Self Expression
 


 
Self-expression refers to the need for your individuality through various means. Self-expression can take the form of literal expression whereby a person gets to say exactly how they feel about something. For instance, a political activist carrying a banner with the words ‘Free Speech’, then this is considered to be a form of liberal self-expression. On the other hand, self-expression can also task a myriad of direct ways putting on a pink t-shirt in order to support the fight against breast cancer or making a gesture that seems to suggest that one supports a certain course of action.
 


 
The need for enhanced self-expression, especially at a personal level, is also one of the social drivers behind the narcissistic personality. This is because many people are now very concerned about how they are perceived by the outside world. More than ever before, people are willing to go out of their way in order to define who they are, but, in some cases, they get carried away while trying to do so. When someone spends too much time thinking about how they are supposed to look, the kind of people they are supposed to be seen around, the kind of car they are supposed to drive, and all such personal things, they create an aura of individuality around them. They are more likely to end up thinking too much about themselves, developing an inclination towards authoritative behavior and generally, adopt many other characteristics associated with a narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
Rise of the Cult of the Individual
 


 
Currently, there is more focus on individuality than there is on the wider society. The global society cares a lot about the achievement of individuals and seems to downplay the achievements of a group of people. For instance, countries such as China have managed to realize substantial economic and social progress over the past couple of decades. The Chinese people can thus be seen as a society that has managed to attain a lot through collective effort. Be that as it may, the accolades that a large group of people such as a nation receives on account of their collective achievement is nothing compared to the accolades that an individual such a celebrity, global icon or even a musician receives when they manage to do something outstanding. Because of this fact, you will find that many people will spend a lot of effort trying to advance their own individual needs since they know that they live in a society in which individual achievement is accorded higher recognition as compare to communal or societal achievement.
 


 
The cult of the individual is a term that refers to the high levels of obsession with high achieving individuals on the part of the wider society. It seems like the current day post-modern society cannot have enough of the so-called celebrities. Movie stars, accomplished athletes, footballers, and other such high achievers are almost worshipped in pretty much every place they go to. Such admiration and obsession with people based on their achievements encourage other people to focus too much on themselves in a bid to achieve something outstanding. Such people appreciate the power of the cult of the individual since they know that if they are able to something on their own, then they will command respect and admiration from the rest of society. Unfortunately, many people do not know that by focusing too much on their own achievements, they are slowly developing an inclination towards narcissistic behavior. Furthermore, the cult of the individual has also seen many people do things that are directly designed to hurt others, such spread malicious rumors in a bid to bring down other people. Such acts are informed by the narcissistic belief that the only way for one to rise up in life is if they bring down other people that they consider to be their potential competitors.
 


 
 
 


 
Materialism and Consumerism Culture
 


 
Materialism and consumerism refer to two socio-economic concepts that relate to the manner in which people view material wealth and spend their income, respectively. Materialism, in particular, relates to an obsession with material wealth such as real estate, cars, clothes, jewelry and other such items of material wealth. The thing about materialism is that it will make you always think about the next big expenditure item that you are planning to purchase. For instance, you may be planning to buy a new car and thus end up spending most of your time thinking about the car itself, the means of raising funds to facilitate the purchase and other such things that are directly related to your impending purchase. When you spend too much time thinking about a material item that intends to purchase, you can easily fall into the trap of narcissistic personality. 
 


 
Secondly, consumerism is a lifestyle that is mainly anchored around frequent expenditure. Consumerism most often than not entails the frequent purchase of low price but non-essential items. This culture is predominantly in the western world, where people purchase many things that they do not necessarily need. However, the frequent nature of such purchases implies that the consumerist culture can be a fairly expensive one. You can, for instance, end up spending thousands of dollars on many small items without even knowing.
 


 
The consumerism culture has made people incur a lot of expenses that they can hardly sustain. Consequently, most people end up spending a huge chunk of their lives thinking of ways of making money so that they can make ends meet. This is a major contributor to narcissistic behavior since people hardly ever have time to think about others. They are mainly focused on how much money they can make, how they will pay for that credit card, how they will fuel their cars among other such concerns. 
 


 
 
 


 
General Lack of Empathy
 


 
Empathy refers to the capacity to think about other people and relate to their situations in life. Simply put, empathy relates to one’s ability to fit into another person’s shoes. When you are able to empathize with someone, you will find it much easier to identify some of the problems that they may be experiencing. Empathy also opens you up to a higher number of possibilities in terms of some of the actions that you can take in order to assist other people. 
 


 
One of the reasons why they have been increasing cases of narcissistic personality disorder is because people have simply stopped empathizing with others. It seems like many people have become desensitized and cannot be moved by the plight of the people around them. The situation is compounded by the fact that even those in close relationships, such as family members or spouses are losing the capacity to empathize with one another. When you cannot put yourself in the shoes of another person, then you will end thinking that it is okay to spend your life only worrying about yourself. You can also find it very easy to go out there and deliberately hurt someone else since you do not have the capacity to feel the pain that they are feeling. The general lack of empathy within the society has made people be narcissistic and think that they do not have any responsibility to the person next to them. They are also likely to make decisions solely based on what it is that they want and give zero consideration to the needs of other people. Finally, narcissistic behavior occasioned by a lack of empathy can also make someone be blind to some of the potential adverse consequences that might befall someone else based on their decision. To them, their only consideration is the direct benefit that they will derive from such a decision.
 


 
 
 


 
Parental Heritage
 


 
Parental heritage refers to the nature of parenting that an individual has been subjected to. Parenting has a great bearing on the life of every person since your parents, their beliefs, culture, and way of life will impact your choices as an individual. What is important to note is that society has changed significantly, and many parents have very little time for their children.  This is due to the demanding nature of the present-day lifestyle. Many parents find that they have to spend most of their lives in the workplace. Parents have been reduced to mere providers as they struggle to put food on the table and a roof over their children’s heads. The rat race mentality that is held by many parents has literally left many children to their own devices.
 


 
The fact that many parents have very little time to bring up their children and teach them moral values has resulted in many cases of a narcissistic personality. Children have had to develop their personalities solely on their own and this is definitely not the best approach to use. Ideally, the parents should be able to teach children the right framework when it comes to what constitutes an acceptable personality. A parent can, for instance, let a child know that each and every person in society is important notwithstanding their social status in life. Such a child will grow up respecting other people. Furthermore, when a parent teaches the child that they have the responsibility of taking care of themselves and other people as well, they will not end up being self-absorbed and only caring about their needs and desires. 
 


 
It is also important to point out the fact that some parents actually exhibit narcissistic personality. Such parents are self-absorbed and would like to remain the centers of attention within the family setting. They might, therefore, see the children as potential threats, thus go out of their way to prevent their children from attaining their true potential. There will be a more detailed discussion on narcissistic parents later on in this chapter, but the main point here is that narcissistic parents can translate to a child developing a narcissistic personality. 
 


 















Chapter 3: Types of Narcissistic Personalities
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
There are several types of narcissistic personalities that are at types classified as characteristics of narcissistic personalities. It is important to have knowledge and information regarding the types and characteristics of narcissistic personalities in order to ensure that you do not end up a victim of someone with this disorder. Furthermore, in case you notice that you exhibit some of these characteristics, then the knowledge regarding such characteristics will make it possible for you to take corrective action so that you are able to relate well with other people. It is important to note that most of the time, people tend to overlook some of these warning signs up to that point when they become victims of a person with a narcissistic personality disorder. 
 


 
Sometimes it is difficult to identify someone with narcissistic personality due to various reasons. First and foremost, most people with narcissistic personality disorder are often charming and seem quite appealing upon initial interaction. Secondly, some of the symptoms of narcissistic personality are considered quite similar to what would pass as mundane anti-social behavior that many people exhibit from time to time. The only difference between an ordinary person and a person with a narcissist personality disorder is that those with the disorder will exhibit such anti-social behavior with a much higher frequency as compared to an ordinary person. The trick is, therefore, to look out for repeated behavior on the part of the affected individual. For instance, just because someone seems overly concerned about their physical appearance might not necessarily indicate that they are narcissistic. However, if the person seems overly concerned about everything to do with themselves, such as their car, their clothes, makeup, and other things at the expense of everything else, then chances are that such a person could indeed have a narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
The Toxic Narcissist
 


 
One of the main types of narcissistic personality is a toxic narcissist. A toxic narcissist is someone who often has a negative impact on the lives of people around them. In many cases, such a person makes a deliberate decision to hurt the person around them in one way or the other. The person causes pain and hurts the people around them in many ways. For instance, interaction with a toxic narcissist can result in you losing your job. Similarly, such a person can also cause you to lose your significant other in case you are in a relationship.
 


 
In many cases, the toxic narcissistic personality presents itself in very mundane ways and you may not notice this behavior until such a time you will have experienced the loss. For instance, a friend or a colleague might constantly ask you to go out for drinks on a weekday knowing very well that such behavior might cause you to lose your job. You might not appreciate the negative impact that such a person is having on your life until you have finally lost that job.  All in all, it is important to avoid the toxic narcissist at all costs since a regular engagement with such a person will only result in your downfall. Furthermore, you must appreciate the fact that the overall goal of a toxic narcissist is for you to go down as they uplift themselves since they can only be happy when they are the ones on top.
 


 
 
 


 
Vulnerable Narcissist
 


 
In addition to the toxic narcissist, another type of narcissistic personality is the vulnerable narcissist. As the name suggests, such an individual is seemingly highly vulnerable to anything negative that happens around them. The vulnerable narcissist exhibits strong reactions to negativities around them and makes everything about them. For instance, such a person might watch a news broadcast about a road accident that has claimed several lives and all over a sudden, becomes inconsolable. Such repeated behavior has the resultant effect of making other people always go out of their way in order to attend to the needs of the person with this personality disorder. The narcissist thus ends up consuming most of your time and this might interfere with your progress in life. 
 


 
Vulnerable narcissists usually have a negative impact on the lives of the people around them. As an individual, you will have to spend most of your time around a person with this type of narcissistic disorder since their needy nature will require you to attend to them whenever they come across the news regarding the slightest issue. Their enhanced capacity to personalize anything and everything that they come across implies that the vulnerable narcissist is also an inherently selfish person. 
 


 
Once you notice that someone is a vulnerable narcissist, then the nest thing you can do for yourself is to get out of the relationship as fast as possible. This is because, at the end of it all, any relationship with a vulnerable narcissist can only have one outcome, which will never be good for you.
 


 
 
 


 
The Overt Narcissism
 


 
The overt narcissist is also another kind of narcissistic disorder that is quite difficult to conceal. An overt narcissist, like many other types of narcissists, seeks to make everything about themselves. They believe that they should have all the attention even in situations where they are not necessarily the central focus. In ordinary day to day life, an overt narcissist is usually described as the ‘life of the party.’ They will be the ones that want to talk the most in any social gathering. They will put the most outlandish outfit in a gathering such a house party and proceed to do anything and everything in order to attract attention.
 


 
However, it is important to point out that someone might exhibit some of the aforementioned characteristics, but this does not necessarily mean that they have a narcissistic personality disorder. For instance, they are people who are genuinely fun-loving and who try to go out of their way in order to lighten up the mood in every situation. However, the difference between an ordinary person and a narcissistic individual is that the later would be willing to go to the extreme just to attract attention. For instance, they might cause a scene at a wedding party in order to deliberately focus attention away from the bride and broom and onto themselves. Anyone who is willing to do just about anything simply to try and attract attention to themselves is thus considered to be an overt narcissist.
 


 
 
 


 
A Covert Narcissist
 


 
The opposite of overt narcissism is covert narcissism. A covert narcissist is, at times, referred to as a closeted narcissist since they, most often than not, do not display their narcissistic behavior. The overall goal and objective of a covert narcissist is to have other people admire them because of their success or any other thing that makes them stand out. However, unlike the overt type, the covert narcissist does not go out of their way so as to attract attention. But their narcissistic behavior can be inferred from their actions on a day to day basis. For instance, you might have a friend who seeks to constantly remind you of how rich they. Such a person would try and bring to the table conversation regarding their wealth even if it is not the subject of the conversation.
 


 
It is also important to note that a covert narcissist lacks basic human emotions such as love and empathy. They can try to conceal this by seemingly acting like they care, but sooner or later, their true nature will reveal itself. For example, an intimate partner might act remorseful because they have been caught cheating, but they end up doing the same thing a few months down the line. The lack of empathy is one of the more important reasons why you should try and avoid covert narcissists. This is because such a person would not hesitate to hurt you in order to fulfill their own ambitions. Furthermore, such a person cannot understand the trouble you are going through in life in case you are experiencing any difficult times nada such, they would be unwilling to assist you. Initially, you might not be able to notice such a person on account of their closeted nature. However, once you notice that someone is going out of their way to make you admire them or lacks basic empathy, then you should make that decision to terminate any relationship that you may be having with them. 
 


 
 
 


 
The Bullying Narcissist
 


 
As earlier pointed out, the overall gain of a narcissist is for them to stay up while pushing other people down. One way through which people with the narcissistic disorder are able to attain this objective is through bullying. The bullying narcissist, therefore, seeks to bully other people with the sole objective of making them feel small. For instance, you might be involved in a conversation with a group of people. Then one of your friends constantly points out your character flow, such as that slight stammer that you often try to conceal. Such a person is considered to be a bullying narcissist since they are trying to make you feel bad about yourself in order for them to feel elated.
 


 
One of the overbearing characteristics with all bullying narcissists is that they will constantly make jokes about you, point out some of the inherent flaws that you may be having, and do just about everything to belittle you, especially in the presence of other people. This is because the bullying narcissist has been wired to believe that the only way they can stay up is by taking down other people. What is even more unfortunate is that the strategy applied by such people often works since many people are not aware of what is happening. For instance, your friend might make you feel bad about yourself by pointing out a character flaw. You, in turn, end up feeling unworthy and lock yourself indoors while they continue being the central focus of your social group. However, by knowing and understanding that they have a personality disorder, then you know how to react. You will understand that is lacking in something and that the only way that they can compensate for their lack is by mocking others. So instead of locking yourself up, you will continue going out while pursuing your objectives since you know that deep down, they are afraid of what you might become.
 


 
 
 


 
The Psychopathic Narcissist
 


 
The psychopathic narcissist is perhaps the worst kind of narcissist that you can come across. This is an individual who is obsessed with having people admire them, being in control, and being at the top. The psychopathic narcissist also lacks human empathy and this is one of the traits that makes them quite dangerous. Although a person with psychopathic narcissism exhibits many symptoms that are similar to other types of this personality disorder, the main difference is the aggressiveness with which such a person is able to pursue their goals for personal fulfillment. For instance, such a psychopath would be willing to maim and even kill just to fulfill their narcissistic needs. For example, a person who is willing to ahead and poison the food of their colleague in order ensure that they do not show up at work on account of food poisoning and ‘steal their show’ can be considered to be a psychopathic narcissist. This is a person who is willing to maim someone else because they want to be the focus of the attention perhaps in an office event.
 


 
When it comes to people with psychopathic narcissism, the best advice would not to even engage them in the first place. However, since it is difficult to know forthright whether or not a person has this kind of personality disorder, it would be best to with your gut on this one. Furthermore, never ignore the advice you receive from other people about alleged narcissistic behavior on the part of the person involved. Ultimately, psychopathic narcissists are dangerous people who can threaten your life and you must ensure that you are able to avoid them whenever you come across one. 
 


 
 
 


 
The Seducer
 


 
The seducer narcissist is considered to be one of the most notable types of narcissists that you may encounter in your quest to find an intimate partner. The seducer narcissist is simply a person who goes all out in order to seduce another person engages in a sexual encounter with them and walk out of the relationship as soon as they have achieved their objective. The seducer narcissist largely perceives other people mainly as [potential sexual conquests. Once they feel attracted to you, they will go ahead and seduce in all manner of ways until you allow them into your intimate sphere. 
 


 
The main difference between the seducer narcissist and other types of narcissists is that they are the only ones that can actually make you feel important, albeit for an extremely short period of time. This is because, seduction typically involves saying nice words to someone like, doing very nice things to someone such as taking them out on an expensive date, buying all sorts of gifts for them and generally doing various things that will make this person feel like they are on top of the world. For this reason, a narcissist who uses seduction in order to attain their objective is someone that has it in them to actually make another person feel important. However, it should never be lost to you that the end game of a seducer narcissist is to make them feel important by adding you to their list of people that they have engaged in intimate relationships with. The fact that they are able to make you feel important in the process is all about them, and they perceive it merely as a means to an end. 
 


 
When it comes to narcissistic individuals, the rule of thumb is to avoid them at all costs. However, this might be easier said than done. This is because, looking at some of the characteristics and types of narcissistic behavior, it is rather apparent that you must have come across at least one or two people exhibiting such behavior. The truth is that many people exhibit some form of narcissistic behavior, albeit to a mundane scale. The most important thing is to avoid people with extreme narcissistic behavior. Furthermore, you should ensure that people with narcissistic tendencies that are likely to endanger your lives such as the psychopathic narcissist and the toxic ones are not anywhere near your social circle. Even if you encounter such people in your college, workplace, and any other setting where you are bound to encounter them, it is best to minimize your interaction to the bare minimum. This will ensure that you are to protect yourself from any negative consequences that might be occasioned by narcissistic behavior on the part of other people. 
 


 















Chapter 4: Narcissism in Family and Relationships
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism is also something that you may encounter in your immediate family setting. This is because you may have a parent or a sibling with a narcissistic personality disorder. It is quite difficult to deal with this type of social disorder within your immediate family setting since as compared to other places such as in the workplace. The family setting constitutes your immediate social space, and, in many cases, one has to spend most of their time within such a setting. Furthermore, you can choose to work in another company or attend a different college in order to avoid a narcissistic person. For instance, you may decide to quit your company and look for another job opportunity in case you find your current employer a little bit too narcissistic for you. However, you cannot choose your family, and at the same time, it is almost impossible to walk out on the family. Be that as it may, you should know how to go about identifying and dealing with someone with a narcissistic personality.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic Parents and their Behavior
 


 
Parents are supposed to be the primary caregivers of their offspring. Your parent should ensure that you are brought up in a good environment and one that is devoid of any physical or emotional threats. Parents are also tasked with the responsibility of instilling self-confidence in their children and ensuring that have the necessary mental and emotional strength to face the world. However, there are many parents that do not have what it takes to properly raise their children with such category being the narcissistic parents. You may have a parent who is narcissistic, but you are not sure if this is the case. This section will discuss some of the signs and symptoms of narcissistic behavior among parents.
 
 


 
Constant Ridicule
 


 
In many cases, narcissistic parents seek to be the only ones on top and are afraid of perceived competition even from their own children. For this reason, a narcissistic parent will do anything to ensure that they are able to bring down their children. Notably, this involves constant ridicule from the parents targeting the children with the view of making them feel as if they are not good enough. For instance, a parent will ensure that are able to constantly remind the child about a failure that they had in the past so as to make it difficult for the child to try again. Secondly, the ridicule might take the form of criticizing the child based on their physical appearance. For instance, a parent who keeps telling the child that they are too fat and ugly is considered to narcissistic since they know that the only effect of such constant ridicule is that they will lower the child’s self-esteem.
 


 
It is important to remember that the driving force behind narcissistic parenting is high insecurity on the part of the parent. Only extreme insecurity can make a person fear competition from their own siblings. All the same, as a child subjected to narcissistic parenting, it is important to remember that there is nothing wrong with but that there is something extremely wrong with your parent. You should, therefore, not try to change who you are in order to please your parents, but you should instead let your parents know that they have a personality disorder that is undermining your relationship with them.
 
 


 
Inflated Self Image
 


 
Most narcissistic parents also exhibit a sense of inflated self-image. They tend to believe that they are more important than other people and this inflated self-image is at times extended to the family setting. In many cases, parents will feel that they are more important than others, including their children, based on what they do. For those in mainstream professions such as medicine, finance, or engineering, they tend to believe that their profession accords them the status of being the most important people in society. This might result in them frowning upon the career choices that their children have in mind. For instance, you might be having a parent who is a doctor and becomes extremely disappointed that their daughter or son has picked a career in acting. Such a parent will go out of their way to convince the child to pursue a career in medicine since they think that this is the only that child will end up being someone important in society.
 


 
It is worth noting that most narcissistic parents with inflated self-image will tend to extend this characteristic to the child. The parent might, for instance, convince the child that they are more important than their friends at school. This is often grounded with real-world examples such as letting the child know that they live in one of the most expensive neighborhoods in the city, thus making superior. As a child, once you notice that your father or mother is trying to material wealth as justification for your perceived superiority over others, you could be alive to the fact that they may be having a narcissistic personality disorder. There is probably very little you can do regarding their disorder, but on your part, you should never give in to the fallacy that you are more important or superior to others. In the end, you must appreciate the fact that we may be different in many ways, but everybody is important.
 
 


 
Manipulation
 


 
It is quite unfortunate that many parents manipulate their children on account of narcissistic personality disorder. Manipulation in this context can take many forms, but it is mainly aimed at making the children feel a little bad about themselves. The parent, in turn, derives some sort of satisfaction by knowing that they have brought their kid down a notch or two.
 


 
Many parents with narcissistic personality disorder use guilt as a tool to manipulate their kids. Such parents will constantly remind the child of something good that they did for them in order to ensure that the child feels indebted to them. A parent might, for instance, keep reminding the kid of the new bike that they bought for them so that the child is forced to keep expressing their gratitude for the parent. This is because the regular expression of gratitude is one of the things that will make the parent feel important.
 


 
Manipulation can also take the form of blame game whereby the parent apportions blame to the child for things that have nothing to do with them. For instance, a parent might lame the child for their own state of unhappiness, anti-social behavior such as alcohol addiction, and many other things. The goal in many such cases is to make the child feel worse than the parent for things that they know nothing about.
 


 
Comparison is also another form of manipulation that parents with narcissistic personality disorder use.  The parent might compare one sibling to another with a view of making the child feel bad. In the same breath, a parent can also compare the child with one of their friends while letting them know that they think the friend is much better at something than the child is. Comparison seeks to let the child know that the people they are being compared with are better than them and this has the overall effect of undermining the child’s self-esteem. Once the child develops such low-self-esteem, then this will boost the esteem of the parent since the only thing that they want is to be better than their children.
 


 
Emotional manipulation is something that many parents with the disorder prefer to use. Emotional manipulation entails letting the child know that the parent will not consider them to be their children unless they behave in a certain manner. In some cases, the parent can go ahead and verbally disown their children so as to make them feel bad. The emotional manipulator is perhaps the worst kind of narcissistic parent since they are able to inflict severe emotional pain and distress to the child.
 


 
Children should be wary of such manipulative behavior on the part of their parents. Initially, narcissistic manipulation is designed to make the child feel bad about themselves. However, once one is aware of the rationale and way of thinking of a narcissistic parent, then they will not be manipulated into behaving in a certain way. It is important to note that the end game of any manipulation is to make someone behave in a certain way. However, if you are aware that indeed you are being manipulated, they will not behave in a particular manner just to satisfy the needs of the manipulator. In the case of narcissistic parents, manipulation is designed to make the child feel ill-equipped, sorry, and even indebted to the parent. But if the child knows that they are being manipulated, they will not exhibit such behavior, thus negating the objective of the manipulative parent.
 
 


 
Highly Reactive
 


 
Some narcissistic parents exhibit extreme reactions to anything wrong that the child does. No child is perfect and from time to time, children will do something wrong. For very young children, they are actually meant to learn from their mistakes since this is regarded to be the most effective way for them to acquire life lessons. However, it is quite difficult for children with narcissistic parents. This is because the parents are wired to overact every time a child makes even the slightest mistake. Such children end up living in fear of their parent’s reaction and this prevents them from trying out new things. Some of the parents might affect the children in their later lives since they will be unable to attain their true potential.
 


 
You should not allow the fear of your parents to prevent you from fully experiencing the gift of life. They are many teenagers out there and even young adults who are still afraid of their parents. Because of this fear, they will allow their parents to have a profound impact on their lives, including making decisions about their careers, their potential husband or wife and even going to the extent of allowing their parents to decide how they bring up their own children. However, if you have been brought up by such a parent, it is high time you appreciate the fact that you are not the one with a problem, but your parent is. You should try and conquer the fear you have for your parents since, in the end, fear can only keep you from experiencing your life to the full.
 
 


 
General Lack of Empathy Towards the Child
 


 
Narcissistic parents will hardly ever empathize with their children. The parents will not try and see things from the perspective of the child; instead, they will keep insisting that everything has to be done the way they want. It is important to note that children have feelings and opinions on various issues and that their opinion does indeed matter. Once children are made to feel like their opinions do not matter, then they are likely to distance themselves from their parents as they try to do things their own way. Others may try and fight back to at least try to get their parents to see things from their perspective. Finally, and unfortunately, some children may end up pleasing their parents by adopting the perspectives of the parents even when deep down, they would rather pursue a different course of action. Such children end up being very good at putting on a show for their parents and this might eventually undermine their own personalities. 
 


 
At the end of it, narcissistic personality on the part of the parents is likely to have a profound impact on the child. Children growing up with narcissistic parents will likely develop into insecure or even narcissistic adults. This is because such children are programmed to believe that they are more important than others and that it is right for the parents or adults to always have their way. Furthermore, a child who has been manipulated by the parent is also likely to end up being a master manipulator. It is, therefore, important for the child to try and develop their own perspectives and outlook in life, to appreciate that everyone is important so as not end up being a victim of narcissistic parenting.
 


 
 
 


 
How to Tell if Your Partner is Narcissistic
 


 
In addition to parents, partners in a relationship or a marriage can be narcissistic towards their significant others. A narcissistic partner such as a wife, husband, girlfriend, or boyfriend can be very difficult to deal with. In some cases where the person exhibits mild symptoms of narcissistic behavior, you can try and correct the same. However, if the behavior is over the top, then the best decision is to walk away from the relationship or marriage whatever the case may be. This is because, in any relationship, the two people involved must work together in harmony in order to maintain it. However, if you are involved with an extremely narcissistic person, then chances are that you may be the only one working towards nurturing and enhancing the relationship while the other person gets to do basically whatever it is that they want. You will most probably end up getting hurt since sooner or later, the relationship will run its course on account of the behavior of the narcissistic partner.
 
 


 
Talks Too Much About Themselves
 


 
When you are engaged with someone who prefers to talk too much about themselves, then chances are that they are narcissistic. The element of self-absorption is perhaps the most overt sign that one is a narcissist. To this end, a narcissistic partner will prefer to always focus on themselves, their dreams, aspirations, issues and many other such things whenever you are trying to have an ordinary conversation with them.  It is also important to note that a narcissistic partner will often cut in when you are trying to say something and somehow steer the conversation to something that is directly related to them. This implies that such a person is constantly thinking about themselves and rarely thinks about you. Their ability to actually care about you comes into question since they are not interested in your opinion unless what you are saying has something to do with them, for instance, praising them on something that they did.
 
 


 
Sense of Entitlement
 


 
A narcissist partner usually has an inflated sense of entitlement. They tend to believe that they are the more important parties to the relationship and as such, they expect to be treated as so. In case you have such a partner, you will notice that you are the one who is always doing good things for them. They will hardly ever go out of their way in order to make feel special. For instance, such a partner will never take you out for dinner in case you happen to be married to one, take you out for a weekend gate away, buy you an anniversary gift or any such act that is designed to show you how important you are to them. On the flip side, a narcissistic partner will expect you to do the aforementioned things for them and more in order to make them feel important. For instance, a wife or a girlfriend will expect her partner to always take her out for dinner and buy expensive gifts for her while she never takes the time to anything that will make the person in her life feel valued and important.
 
 


 
Excessively Charming
 


 
A narcissistic partner can be excessively charming especially during the initial stages of the relationship. This is because they are trying to win you over and thus use their charm to do so. However, once they have won you over, they will revert back to their true selves. Many will end up being arrogant towards you, they will dismiss your ideas on issues and some might even walk away from the relationship if they decide that they have had enough of you. 
 


 
In order to ensure that you do not end up with a narcissistic person for a wife or husband, it is important that you take time and analyze the behavior of the person you intend to call your significant other. In case they exhibit some of the aforementioned signs of narcissistic behavior, it is best to leave as soon as possible and look for another person. In case you happen to be married to one, you should try and let them know how you feel about their behavior and if they do not change, then you should leave the marriage.
 
 


 
Grandiose Personality and Behavior
 


 
Grandiose personality in this context implies that the narcissistic individual tends to think of themselves as the saviors in a relationship. In the case of a man, he will often think of himself as a hero and savior in the relationship. The person will be of the view that you cannot survive without them and as such, they will seek to constantly remind of this assumption. They will expect their partner to show overt gratitude to them for being the hero that they think they are without reciprocating the same.
 
 


 
Highly Sensitive
 


 
Many narcissistic partners tend to be highly sensitive and would overreact given the smallest provocation. To many of them, they know that being highly sensitive is the best way of attracting attention. The person may at times extreme anger even in slight situations, they may withdraw and stop talking to the other partner or even throw a tantrum whenever they think something is wrong. Such overt expressions of sensitivities can morph into physical violence and this is why you should never put up with someone who is incapable of handling their emotions. 
 


 
 After all, is said and done, any relationship such as a marriage or just a simple romantic relationship between two people is meant to have a positive impact on the partners. Partners in a relationship are supposed to complement one another and add value to each other’s lives. There are many people who have managed to realize more achievements in their personal and professional lives on account of being in rewarding relationships. For this reason, it is important to ensure that your relationship is something that actually adds value to your life. A relationship with someone who is extremely narcissistic is bound to have the opposite effect. This is because, the person is bound to drain you emotionally, physically, and even financially. This is why it is advisable to leave any relationship with an extremely narcissistic individual. Initially, the relationship might seem enjoyable since the narcissistic tendencies might not come out, but eventually, you will notice such tendencies and be in a position to make an informed decision to leave the relationship. 
 


 















Chapter 5: Define Codependency
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Co-dependency is an emotional condition that exhibits largely as one’s behavioral incapability to adjust their relationship with people in healthy, mutually beneficial ways. A codependent partner can be described as having a relationship with addiction. They form and work hard to keep relationships that are too demanding of them emotionally, mentally, and even physically –the relationships could ultimately be abusive and destructive on them.
 


 
The codependent wants to keep their irresponsive unconcerned partner, whose attention is actually distracted by or focused on other things outside their partnership. The partner normally either has a form of addiction like alcohol or other substances or exhibits chronic or mental illness or generally cannot function in their family space as is expected of them. These mannerisms lead to a dysfunctional family in which the members consequently suffer from fear, anger, pain, or even humiliation that is either constantly ignored or denied.
 


 
The indifferent partner who is the real cause of concern in the home is addicted to alcohol, drugs, work, food, relationship, gambling or sex, and there will manifest physical, emotional and sexual abuse, pronounced or mild, and an unusual mental state that is chronic or persistent physical illness which could be taken for reason for need of help and rescue.
 


 
The codependent gets used to doing all the work all the while single-handedly and does not realize a problem exists. So, they do not ever get to talk about or confront the problems. They never perceive them as such or lack the audacity to confront their issues. Emotions are suppressed and needs are disregarded – forcing them to lead a life of survival. They normalize behaviors of denial, negligence, and even intense emotional avoidance, and become detached - never talking or touching or confronting or feeling or trusting each other anymore. Their identity and emotional involvement stop.
 


 
 
 


 
The Codependent Partner
 


 
The codependent partner sacrifices their own needs and exerts their energies on their addicted or ill partner. Draining as this practice may be, they strive at it to the extent of ignoring their own needs, desires, and self. The codependent ends up with low self-esteem and tries to soothe their emotions with external things to feel better. It is utterly hard to be yourself when you are codependent. And if one is not careful, they may also end up in addictions for consolation or release of stress.
 


 
While their intentions for their partners may be good – trying to take care of their ailing partner – but the task keeps becoming enormous and more draining.  The actions of mercy tend to enforce or justify the mannerisms of the dependent member, and they feel okay to stay needy without trying to improve themselves. The codependent on their side thinks that their acts of mercy are what make them needed and approved of by their partner. It is a toxic double coincidence of needs for the two, but the really needy one is indifferent. Codependents form behaviors that make them victims, and they lose the charge to break away to a level of their much-needed freedom.
 


 
The codependent partner:
 




 
Exhibits an exaggerated sense of responsibility for their partner’s actions
 


 
Confuses between love and pity. They are likely to love someone they consider vulnerable because they want to save or rescue them from a situation
 


 
Constantly does more than is required of them all the time
 


 
Are easily hurt when their partner does not recognize the effort, they are putting in
 


 
Overly depends on the relationship for their balance. They hold onto the relationship, trying to prove their worth using their works, for fear of abandonment
 


 
Extremely relies on external approval and recognition from their partner
 


 
Feels guilty trying to be assertive – they think they are over-demanding or will upset their partner
 


 
Really has an urge to control their partner for consideration of their partner’s need for help
 


 
Paradoxically, do not hold sufficient trust in both themselves or their partner
 


 
Has difficulty identifying and differentiating between feelings
 


 
Only changes forcefully, when they do not have an option left
 


 
Rarely acknowledges intimate boundaries and may thus be intrusive to their partners
 


 
Exhibits chronic anger, prompting them to sometimes become dishonesty in compensation
 


 
Can be quite poor at communication out of their excessive mindfulness
 


 
Generally has difficulty making even the simplest of decisions
 




 
Think of yourself in light of the following:
 




 
Rather than engage in arguments, you choose to be quiet, though you know you have a point to make
 


 
The opinions of others make you anxious
 


 
You preferred to live with an addict though you did not necessarily enjoy it
 


 
You endured staying with a person who used to hit, cut at or belittle you
 


 
You regard people’s opinions about you higher than your own
 


 
You generally drag when you have to make adjustments
 


 
When your partner spends time with others, you feel they are ignoring you
 


 
You doubt your capability to transform yourself into what you want to be
 


 
You are mostly uncomfortable expressing your feeling to others
 


 
You often feel inadequate
 


 
You judge yourself harshly when you make a mistake
 


 
You do not know how to consider appreciations from others
 


 
You feel ashamed for your partner when they make a mistake
 


 
You think your partner will not be fine without your help
 


 
You keep wishing someone could help you get your stuff in order
 


 
You generally find difficult engaging people who have authority over you
 


 
You are uncertain who you really are and where you want to lead your life
 


 
You rarely decline any requests even when you know you might not meet the expectation
 


 
You have difficulty reaching out for help even when you really need it
 


 
You always have many things to do at the same time, you rarely create time to do each at a time
 




 
If most of these are true with you, then you are codependent.
 


 
 
 


 
How Codependency Develops
 


 
Codependency is largely learned. This means, its origins can be traced into one’s childhood or behavioral adjustments at a certain point in their early years of maturity. Thus, some people are more susceptible to codependency in their adulthood than others. But when one can trace their way into this trait, then they can subsequently tread more consciously and cautiously with the view to defeat it over time.
 


 
For the majority of people, codependency roots from their upbringing, especially when they still were children. Children are easily influenced. They lack cognitive abilities and experience to recognize that they are witnessing or living in unhealthy relationships from or with that their parents. To them, parents are always right, speak the truth, teach good values, and have sufficient skills to lead and relate.
 


 
A child who grows up in a dysfunctional family where they are taught and handled with lesser regards as people end up believing that they do not really matter. They regard themselves last after everyone and are likely to cause and experience family problems in their years of maturity and responsibility. Let us begin by checking out some behaviors that characterize dysfunctional families.
 


 
Dysfunctional families are generally:
 




 
disordered and erratic – anyone does anything, any time and in their way inconsistently
 


 
uncooperative – there lacks concern and coordination between members
 


 
scary and insecure – members converse and exchange in irrational to extreme ways
 


 
neglectful–members are generally insensitive of each other’s needs
 


 
manipulative–members seek advantage over each other
 


 
castigating – everyone feels the other is always on the wrong or causes all trouble
 


 
excessively strict or unmannerly –they openly display inconsiderable actions against each other
 


 
disgracing – they point at each other’s weaknesses and mistakes to shame them
 


 
in denial – they do not recognize that they have internal problems that should be addressed among themselves or with external support
 


 
secretive – members withhold details from each other, and family mistakes are concealed internally
 


 
hypercritical – members are not compassionate with each other but judge among themselves
 


 
inattentive – members do not pay attention to family needs and are distracted from each other
 


 
exacting – they expect that every member is perfect, even the young, hence unrealistically demanding each of the other
 




 
Dysfunctional families are likely to blame children for mistakes that arise. Where the child is spared such comments, they are told there is no problem. This is confusing to the child because when there is a problem on the child’s part, they intuitively know. As well, when they are blamed for what they are not responsible for, they are clear about it to a certain degree. Mixed or contradictory messages from the caregivers generally distort the child’s understanding and feelings. This becomes a persistent invalidating procedure that leaves the child to conclude that they are a problem for the family.
 


 
A child whose feelings are never validated or thoughts affirmed reach to the conclusion that they are bad, stupid, unworthy, and incapable, and that they are the reason for family dysfunction. Adult codependence roots in this childhood experience and consequential belief. A childhood home environment in which support and nurturing are unstable makes the child to:
 




 
Become caretakers
 




 
The child takes up the role of parenting in the home, taking care of the siblings, paying the bills, preparing meals, and sometimes understanding and taking care of the parents when they are drunk or behave inappropriately or weakly towards their duties. You develop the sense that you have to step up to have things aligned and running, lest everything goes wrong under everyone’s watch.
 




 
Consider people who love them more hurtful than soothing
 




 
An emotionally and sometimes physically abandoned, exploited, threatened, cheated, or hurt child matures with this belief in mind that family living takes only endurance without joys. They let their friends and partners later in life to prevail over them, while one on their part keeps thinking that they must exercise patience if only to hold the family together.
 




 
Strive to please others over themselves
 




 
Uncertainty in the importance of one’s thoughts and feelings make them lose intrinsic control of things that even affect them first hand. So, they stay trying to please their partner or other people in the illusion taking control in that way. One, out of fear, never openly takes stances agreeing or disagreeing about issues. They hope that by giving and giving, they are rewarded with some feeling of self-worth and emotional fulfillment.
 




 
Struggle with emotional boundaries
 




 
The child matures without having the courage to say how far they can commit to something or let people close to them. They are constantly out to please and entertain everyone or are withdrawn and closed off not willing to trust their partner. Ultimately, one matures without defining guiding values and principles in their life.
 




 
Always court the feeling of guilt
 




 
The child feels guilty for the wrong or bad things that they did not even cause. One feels that the mischief in the family is due to their incapability to fix it. Even when it feels unjustifiable, but one thinks they could still do something to make it right. The feeling that they could not set things absolutely right viciously informs their thoughts and feelings of inadequacy.
 




 
Become overly fearful
 




 
Childhood uncertainties for fear of scary moments and their frequent unexpected occurrences make one mature up, always fearful of the next moment from their partner. Even when things seem smooth in the current moments, one constantly fears that unless they behave in certain enhanced ways or perform certain deserving acts, they will be punished or abandoned by their partner.
 




 
Become oversensitive
 




 
One matures thinking that something about them is flawed and they have to work to suppress, hide or outshine it. This makes them stay over-conscious with their thoughts and actions and think of themselves as uninteresting to their partner and everyone around them.
 




 
Become less trustful
 




 
The constant feeling of betrayal and exploitation makes one to not trust their well-being with their partners and counterparts. This is in an attempt to protect oneself from future hurt. This extends into becoming a barrier to intimacy and connection with the partner.
 


 
The other consequences include a constant feeling of loneliness, unwillingness to admit help, over-responsibility, and dictatorship, among others. An understanding of your cause of codependence and how it played out to turn you into one will go a long way in informing your correction strategies.
 


 















Chapter 6: The Nature of Codependency
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Codependence on Parents
 


 
Codependent parents try to make up for what their parents lacked by demanding it from their children. They expect to receive a form of love or devotion from their children, which they did not get from their parents. They blur and even break boundaries them their children and them. Mixed and confused with the love of apparent, codependency on parents may be difficult to spot. Let’s look at some pointers.
 




 
Easily upset
 




 
Codependent parents do not precisely know how to draw limits when their child gets upset. They open up to the children and keep nursing them for a whole age, with the feeling that they are not fine because the child is not fine.  While they appear to be soothing the child, they are actually soothing themselves by means of the child. When they cannot keep doing so at the moment, they may choose to return the child’s words and emotions back to them, so that the child realizes that it is, in fact, the parent who is upset more.
 




 
Control over the child
 




 
The codependent parent will try to control the life of the child. When the child is going through an experience of discomfort, the parent attempts to take over with the thought of greatly influencing the decision of what should happen and how it should proceed. They may not promptly realize that what they want is not necessarily what the child is considering to be effective. And even when they know it, they want to insist on their course in order to relieve their emotions through the child.
 




 
Playing victim
 




 
The parent narrates their childhood experiences and how they negatively impacted on them so that the children can see the hurt or pains they underwent in their days. They will also tell their children to pursue certain careers in life and almost insist so when the child is not in agreement with them. If the child picks up the task to compensate for the parent’s sufferings in the earlier life, the parent wins. Similarly, if the child pursues their parent’s desired career for them, the parent wins. In both cases, the child is supposed to live their life in such a way that they make up for the parent’s missed opportunities or privileges.
 




 
Negligence over other relationships
 




 
The parent focuses on strengthening their bond with the child and obviously or subtly ignores their relationship with a partner. The parent acts with the view to eliminate the influence of their partner’s connection with the child on their intended objectives. Sometime, the parent may prefer to push their partner away so that only they have attachment and influence over the child.
 




 
You’re always right
 




 
Codependent parents are never apologetic when they are wrong. When they apologize, it is with force and insincerity. They want to always assert their authority and dominance, and apologizing could be a threat to that, or make the child rebellious, they think. This parent does not give in to their child’s wish for better consideration of things or apology. They take hard stances and remain unmoved.
 




 
Guilt is a weapon
 




 
Codependent parents, when guilty, give silent treatments, make passively aggressive comments and projections for their incapability to handle that feeling. They deny the guilt and project it onto other people instead. They do this involuntarily without first considering what it would lead mean on the child or the other person. They cast onto others what they fear for themselves.
 


 
Whatever a codependent parent does have the view to manipulating the child to agree to their wishes or demands. What is more, the parent does it in a way that they ultimately come out as having no responsibility in the subsequent events, so it is upon the child to do what they can to accomplish them.
 


 
 
 


 
Codependency on Partners
 


 
Codependency in relationships is characterized by one person relying on the other for their emotional and social needs to be met, while the very person on their part maintains an irresponsible, addictive or underperforming and underachieving behavior. The other partner, in a way or another tends to be okay with doing everything to support the underperforming person, and thus the system runs in a way that seems complete in that sense.
 


 
Codependent relationships can be described to relationships that are sustained on dysfunctional helping. The codependent partner takes on the role of a helper or rescuer for the weaknesses with the hope that the relationship will keep running as long as support is accorded even in the lack of meeting other aspects or responsibilities of the relationship. Codependent relationships are unbalanced and can only go on for so long. A codependent relationship is unsustainable as it strains the helper’s resources physically, mentally, emotionally, and financially leading to resentment.
 


 
A codependent relationship is one in which love and intimacy are defined contextually as one person’s distress always attended to by other’s rescue or enablement. The helper is the primary provider to the other’s needs, showing love by giving and assisting while the other primarily receives feeling loved.
 


 
The helper’s emotional fluidity makes them entirely attend to the other’s struggles without trying to limit or withhold for fear of guilt.  The helper’s emotional needs are acceptance and closeness coupled with a fear of abandonment. Most of the helper’s competencies are rooted in their low self-esteem as it is tied to the affirmation of their partner than their own.
 


 
The dependent who always needs help and assistance is bound to the helper and kept from maturing, acquiring skills of life, and developing self-confidence, but instead encouraged to stay in addiction, poor health, underperformance, and vicious neediness. Their motivation for change keeps decreasing over time until they become irreparable. Dependent function below average and, therefore, never build more relationships beyond the current one with their partner. This adds to their resistance to change.
 


 
Let us explore the other characteristics of codependency in relationships.
 
 


 
Low Self-Esteem
 


 
The codependent partner regards themselves as insufficient on their own and hence constantly compares themselves with others. While some codependent may paradoxically think highly of themselves, they also imagine themselves as disguising and unlovable. They carry a feeling of shame. Their feeling good is when everything is perfect, but since this is never easily achievable by anyone, they carry an underlying sense of guilt.
 
 


 
People-Pleasing
 


 
Codependents go all their way and expend all their energies and resources trying to please their counterparts to the extent of neglecting their own needs. They are not capable of saying ‘no.’ It makes them anxious. They keep accommodating more and more their partner’s demands and do not come to the point of knowing and asserting that they have enough in their hands with respect to their partner’s needs.
 


 
No Boundaries
 


 
Codependents do not know how to set and respect personal boundaries. Many of them are not able to simply state what belongs to them in terms of feelings, thoughts, need, money, belongings, and sometimes even their bodies. They allow their partners to intrude into their space without permission or regard, and are thus exposed and vulnerable to exploitation. They essentially do not own anything in the relationships and do not have control over anything and themselves.
 


 
But there are also the kinds who are rigid, closed off, and withdrawn. They cannot be approached dynamically. Codependents generally have difficulty adjusting, and so they can be hard in a way to break into.
 
 


 
Oversensitivity
 


 
A lack of having poor boundaries makes one overreactive with everyone’s thoughts and feelings. You believe everything quickly of jump into defense mode on the very instant you hear something that you do not agree with. You rarely engage reason to filter content through. A lack of boundary makes you think every opinion is aimed to describe you and comes as an insult or compliment.
 
 


 
Caretaking
 


 
Codependents are fond of giving excessive care to others as to rescue them from a dire situation when, in fact, it is only an ordinary occasioning that requires minimal intervention. They put their partners first. If the partner calls it enough before the assistance is in course, the codependent feels rejected in person. They keep sticking on trying to help and advice even when the counterpart is openly declining or ignoring their input.
 
 


 
Controlling
 


 
Codependents interpret control in quite a wrong manner. A codependent trying to control things means limiting their creativity and activity. They want to keep their paths narrower and narrower. They want 120% certainty of predictability for the future. The future ought to look like the current. They do want to accommodate risks before it causes them anxiety. In the same way, codependent want to control the people around them because they believe normal behavior follow certain structured patterns they have known all along. Their attempts to please and care for people are an instinctive attempt by codependents to control and manipulate others. They might sometimes act bossy telling others with finality what to do and what not to do.
 


 
 
 


 
Poor Communication
 


 
Codependents are poor communicators, be it of their needs, feelings, or thoughts. They are often unsure of or with what they think, feel, and need and there find it difficult to speak it. They also avoid owning up to certain truths especially if it would upset their partners. They might opt to be agreeable to something they totally abhor. This makes them dishonest and confusion sets in the whole communication process.
 
 


 
Obsessions
 


 
Codependents have tendencies of overthinking about people, relationships, and things. This originates from their dependency patterns, anxieties, and fears. They get into endless windings of thoughts when they think they made or might make a mistake. They sometimes turn their thoughts onto the ideals they desire for things or certain people who have a soothing effect on them to cease the pains of the moment. This way, they live in denial and avoid rising up to the occasion, hence being held from progressing in life.
 
 


 
Reliance
 


 
Codependents depend on other people’s affirmations for them to feel alright with themselves. Though they can stand by themselves, they always fear abandonment or rejection by their partners. Being by themselves for a while is depressing to them, and they may choose to stick in the relationships they have, however painful or abusive they may be, trapping themselves therein.
 
 


 
Denial
 


 
Codependents’ real problem is that they do not really get to acknowledge their problems, and, therefore, never get to face them head-on. They think that the situation or other people are the problem. They keep trying to correct situations or other people, or switch between careers, relationships, etc. not understanding that they are themselves the issue and whose habits need to be adjusted.
 


 
Codependents do not acknowledge their feelings and needs but try to understand those of the others. They focus on facilitating other people’s needs than their own. They do not recognize their need for space and autonomy. Codependents may act sufficiently when they actually need help. They have trouble asking for help and accepting it. They act invulnerable and not needing love or intimacy.
 
 


 
Poor Intimacy
 


 
Codependents fear being open and close with the intimate partners. They fear being judged, rejected, or abandoned for their weaknesses – shame and lack of principles. Conversely, as well, they avoid being overpowered and losing their independence within the relationship. In denial of their need for closeness, codependents may begin to feel like their partner is asking or consuming too much of their time while at the same time complain they are not available for you, is denying your very wish for separateness.
 
 


 
Bitterness
 


 
Codependency is a precursor of bitterness. Shamed and an unvalued person lives while anxious about disregard, rejection, abandonment, personal wrongs and failures, and closeness or aloneness. They feel anger and resentment and enter into a state of depression, hopelessness, and despair. If these feelings persist for too long, the individual may become vain and detach meaning from whatever they think and do.
 


 
 
 


 
Examples of Codependency in Relationships
 


 
Workaholism
 


 
It is not necessarily wrong to be a workaholic; the motivation is right. However, if one overworks themselves thinking that by doing so much, they will earn the approval, praise, and respect of their partner, then that is not the right motivation. While you may earn the desired approval you need, it will not take long before you notice its effects on your health. It is likely you have a lazy partner who does not want to play their duty, and that should not cost your well-being at what you do. There is no heroism in overworking.
 
 


 
Taking the Blame
 


 
Your spouse out of their careless behavior lose a promising contract, and when they inform you, you do not only feel sorry for them, you also claim your responsibility in it, thinking you did not support them in a way or two, which you know would not be necessary anyway, or are farfetched. You want to take responsibility so that your spouse is relieved of their bad feeling. You fear that when they feel low, they will withdraw their love, attention, and affection from you. You want to prevent that, so you sacrifice your feelings for theirs.  Then they see that you could probably have done better, not them, and that is where you go wrong. They stop looking inwards and instead shift their blame on you for what you are not responsible for. Over time, you begin to become aggressive, as it begins to overwhelm you. Your spouse will never anything wrong with themselves, but everything wrong with you and they will not improve.
 
 


 
Undue Anxiety
 


 
Your partner hits their leg on the wall, and you feel the pain. They do not get to bed in time, or they experience shallow sleep, and you begin to have sleepless nights. Their problems concern you more than them. You wear away while they watch helplessly. You want to show them you care, yes, but you are overreacting due to your insecurities. Your partner may esteem you for it, but that will not heal you. Everyone has their worries, and only relevant support is needed for one to be back at what they do to address their individual issues.
 
 


 
Manipulation
 


 
The kind here is twisting your partner’s ill or evil responses to comfort yourself. Your partner called you ‘stupid,’ and you think they did not mean it. They were joking or playing with you, you think. By the time you realize what is going on, you have been on receiving end of verbal abuse getting worse and worse each time, and you have never tried to do anything to stop it. You keep agreeing to such abuses because you do not want to be abandoned. Your spouse, on their end, keeps throwing their abuses because they know you can only take it anyway. You accept to be nothing so that they can be everything hoping you will keep the peace that way forever. Healthy relationships require partners to regard each other with respect both on the inside and on the outside.
 


 
Feeling Unlovable
 


 
Do you really feel the love of your partner yourself, or do you just think and hope they actually love you? By the time this question begins to take a few of your thoughts, you can be sure that their commitment to you and to the relationship is decreasing. Love, when it really exists between the two of you, is not suspected, thought, or imagined, it is experienced then felt. Living in speculation of your partner’s love for you is a consequent of a codependent who has less regard for themselves – abdicating their worth, esteem and dignity to promote that of their partner.
 
 


 
Change Your Partner
 


 
Healthy relationships are those in which partners accept each other as they are. They know the beauty of their differences. The codependent tries to change their partner. You think they will become better lovable to you when they change their identity to a certain degree. You want to improve on their version to some degree. You are trying to protect them against themselves by removing them from their current state. You think they will harm themselves in their current state. This fear is normally exaggerated, and it leads to breaking your friendship with you in the first place. No one changes unless they find need and accept by themselves.
 
 


 
Unnecessary Cover-Ups
 


 
Your spouse does something wrong and you sweep it under the carpet so that they may not suffer the consequences of their actions. Over time, they live expecting that they can do all manner of things and find cover in you. A promiscuous behavior such as lying in your partner, if not addressed and overcome in time will get back at and overcome you as well. Falsehood can only be hidden for a while. With time, when discovered, you will be ridiculed and judged for covering up for your partner. Initially, you thought you were doing it in good faith.
 
 


 
Neglecting Yourself and Your Needs
 


 
True, sometimes, you deny yourself for the sake of your partner. Codependents skip their pressing need to attend their partner’s usual wants. What is more, the recipient is either not willing or indifferent. However, you force yourself on them because you consider them more important than yourself, therefore seeking their approval of you. There is no point in that. You are the performer, but you seek approval of a non-performer over what they do not even understand.
 


 
 
 


 
Intruding
 


 
Your partner is always on you following where you go, how you spend, picking your belongings and using them, and not allowing you space to breathe your air. You look at trespass in the face and then yield to your low self-esteem and keep quiet or appear welcome altogether. This is a behavioral defect that will soon make you lose not just your head but your whole self.
 
 


 
Excessive Obligation
 


 
You are always looking out to fulfill your partner’s needs without considering your own. You speed up or slow down to your partner’s pace, and your sense it is not comfortable with you, but stick at it.  In a healthy relationship, every partner helps the other to be their best selves and supplement and reciprocate their efforts so that individual progress is not hampered. We dare put it to you that codependents put excessive obligations on themselves without prior request from their partners.
 


 















Chapter 7: Discovering my Attachment Style
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
In this section, we help you diagnose whether you have a codependent relationship with your partner.
 


 
 
 


 
Are You Codependent?
 


 
This question seems like what we are supposed to address, but there can be a twist to it. Emotional and behavioral tendencies of codependency affect people of all kinds. But if you are the kind that avoids personal strong or uncomfortable emotions and instead switches to focus on your counterpart’s needs, then you could be codependent.
 


 
Are you normally concerned about your partner’s needs and welfare while you ignore yourself? If this is the case, you are codependent, and that is not good for your relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
Do Codependent Behaviors Exhibit in You?
 


 
Codependents have certain behaviors that can be pointed out in isolation. Throughout your life till now, have you exhibited any of the following behaviors?
 


 
-
        
Do you avoid conflict or extreme emotions, or control your genuine emotions with passive aggression such as anger or humor?
 


 
-
        
Do you like owning your partner’s actions or sometimes offering excessive favors in return for their actions?
 


 
-
        
Do you confuse love for working to rescue your partner and focusing all your thoughts and energies on their needs?
 


 
-
        
Do you play the most part of giving than sharing in your relationship?
 


 
-
        
Do you keep sticking to relationships for too long in the manifestation of loyalty feelings to your partner even when they harm you because you fear being abandoned?
 


 
-
        
Do you oftentimes agree to what you would have preferably declined?
 


 
-
        
Do you concern yourself with other people’s opinions about you than your own?
 


 
-
        
Do you find it difficult to identify your needs, deciding over simple personal things, and communicating your thoughts to your partner?
 


 
-
        
Are you easily resented when your partner does not notice or appreciate your efforts, and sometimes feel guilty for not satisfying them?
 


 
These questions show how you try to act in a way that could please your partner in your hope that they will affirm your self-worth in return. You want to prove yourself to them so they can keep having you.
 


 
 
 


 
Have You Questioned Your Codependent Behaviors?
 


 
If you think your behaviors alone are not enough to tell of your codependence tendencies, then you need to question your behaviors further for sensible justification or revelation. Consider the following:
 


 
-
        
Has your counterpart abused you – physically, emotionally, or mentally?
 


 
-
        
Do you always find it hard withholding or limiting your help to your partner and other people?
 


 
-
        
Do you find it hard asking for help even when you get overwhelmed?
 


 
-
        
Do you doubt what you want to become in life, or are uncertain of your needs and wants?
 


 
-
        
Do you always find ways to avoid an argument?
 


 
-
        
Do you the other people’s thoughts about you cause you anxiety?
 


 
-
        
Do you find your opinions less relevant compared to those of other people?
 


 
-
        
Do you live with an addict or underperformer and are okay with it despite your concerns about them?
 


 
-
        
Do you like sticking in familiar environments and routines and resist voluntary change?
 


 
-
        
Do you feel neglected or secluded when your partner communes or converses with others?
 


 
-
        
Do you find it perplexing receiving compliments or gifts from your partner or other people?
 


 
In considering the above questions, evaluate your answers and see if they are logical or reasonable enough for you to keep manifesting your behaviors. Are you being reasonable behaving the way you are behaving? Are your mannerisms rational, sound, and beneficial?
 


 
Are Your Feelings Caused by Codependency?
 


 
Codependents continually suppress their genuine original feelings and emotions and only display those that relieve their partner’s anxiety or excite their partners and over time, lose touch with themselves and their identity. Ask yourself the following questions.
 


 
-
        
Do you sense a feeling of emptiness inside?
 


 
-
        
Do you have low self-esteem or feel inferior to your counterpart, falsely think highly of yourself?
 


 
-
        
Do you sense uncertainty about your personal needs, objectives, and feelings?
 


 
These three questions genuinely answered speak of one who has disregard for themselves and whose situation in life is deteriorating because they have lost control over their lives.
 


 
 
 


 
Is Your Relationship Susceptible to Codependency?
 


 
Codependency does not just commence in adulthood. It can originate from your upbringing in school or at home or from the previous relationships you found yourself in prior years.
 


 
-
        
Do you hail from a family whose historical background at one point existed in a codependent state, that is, all the needs of the family were suspended or put aside for the well-being of a certain member then?
 


 
-
        
Did any of your caregivers in school or previous childhood lover make you begin adopting codependency behaviors?
 


 
If you can trace happenstances of codependency in the people around you in your prior years, then you are likely to exhibit their influences on you in your adulthood relationships.
 


 
 
 


 
Does Your Partner Fit the Role of a Taker in Your Relationship?
 


 
Codependent relationships have two individual roles. You, the codependent individual, are the caretaker – taking care, and your counterpart, the dependent is the taker – receiving care or being cared for. Therefore, find out whether your counterpart is a taker.
 


 
-
        
Is your partner always trying to control attention, love, sex, and affirmations they can get or give?
 


 
-
        
Do they exhibit violence, finger-pointing, criticism, righteousness, irritation, neediness, invasive touching, incessant talking, or emotional drama just to get show you or get you to give them what they need at any time?
 


 
If your partner displays such behaviors, then they are likely to affect you in such a way that you automatically take on the role of a caretaker, perpetuating codependence in your relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
Do You Recognize Your Child Is a Codependent Too?
 


 
Do you observe codependent tendencies and behaviors in your children? If yes, then you could be a codependent yourself. The children’s displays of codependence may be subtle as they are actually still on their learning curve. But ask yourself the following questions about them:
 


 
-
        
Do they seem unable to make their own decisions, however simple?
 


 
-
        
Do they feel extreme worry, anxiety, or stress?
 


 
-
        
Do they have low self-esteem?
 


 
-
        
Do they try so hard to please others over themselves?
 


 
-
        
Do they fear being alone?
 


 
-
        
Do they become angry every so often?
 


 
-
        
Do they communicate passively than with assertion?
 


 
Children who are mostly unable to be by themselves or on their own to speak for themselves are likely to become codependents, and that might tell of you as the parent possibly being codependent.
 


 
 
 


 
Is There a History of Codependency in Your Family?
 


 
Do you recall in your past witnessing or participating in codependent relationships? Might you have been taught that you could express your needs and emotions only in specific ways? Do you remember being asked to serve others first and yourself later in your familial upbringing?
 


 
It is likely that even after you left that family environment, you persisted acting in a similar manner into your subsequent relationships, and you this tendency might be passed on to your children.
 


 
 
 


 
Did You a History of Abuse Growing Up?
 


 
Did you begin to take on codependence tendencies in attempts to deal with traumatic situations earlier in life? Might you have begun suppressing your needs and emotions in favor of others to keep your well-being and peace for yourself and them? Abuse in early life, if not intervened and stopped in time might make you adapt to it and rationalize other people’s hostile behaviors toward you because you feel defenseless and powerless to stand up against it.  Abuse is also possible to occur in codependent familial relationships.
 


 
If you have any unresolved historical emotional, physical, or sexual abuses, then you might be enduring the current situation as before – which is unhelpful.
 


 
 
 


 
Do You Recognize Your Prevalent Causative Situations for Codependence in Relationships?
 


 
In what ways or circumstances do you behave in ways likely to encourage your codependence tendencies in relationships? You probably go seeking people who exhibit signs of weakness and who need being taken care of or looking after. Think about the following:
 


 
-
        
Are you naturally drawn toward the suffering or addicts?
 


 
-
        
Do you consider yourself a passionate toward the mentally impaired persons?
 


 
-
        
Do you have a heart for those living with chronic diseases?
 


 
Being drawn toward such individualities, most of your interactions is likely to lead you into codependence with them.
 


 
 
 


 
Might There Have Happened a Divorce in Your Past?
 


 
Divorce can be a causative factor for codependency. If you witnessed your parents go separate ways and you stepped up to fill the gap of the missing parent for your siblings, then you might grow up with tendencies for codependency.
 


 
-
        
Did you avoid discussing the difficulties with the remaining parent because you did not want to upset them more?
 


 
If yes, then you began suppressing your emotions then, setting yourself up for codependent behaviors.
 


 
 
 


 
Have You Considered the Symptomatic Details?
 


 
Codependents manifest a myriad of symptoms that might hint toward their codependency motives. Do you often act with motives of controlling others, avoiding trust for others, attaining perfection, avoiding certain feelings, avoiding intimacy, caregiving, monitoring others, denying some realities, neglecting signs of stress-related illness, etc.?
 


 
-
        
How would you consider the family environment or structure or system that nurtured you during upbringing?
 


 
-
        
What kind of rules did you adhere to?
 


 
-
        
Did they slow down overall development or hinder flexibility and spontaneity in your thoughts and actions?
 


 
See if some of these rules applied:
 


 
-
        
It is generally not good to discuss your problems
 


 
-
        
Avoid trusting your instincts and other people
 


 
-
        
Do not express negative or extreme feelings openly
 


 
-
        
Keep and have your feelings contained within yourself
 


 
-
        
Avoid direct communications
 


 
-
        
Do not always approach some members directly or by yourself
 


 
-
        
Always be in your strong, right, good, and perfect form whatever the circumstances
 


 
-
        
Work hard the best you can and makes up exceedingly happy
 


 
-
        
Always be generous and share what you have, however little
 


 
-
        
Follow my instruction, not my actions
 


 
-
        
Playfulness is childishness and lack of seriousness
 


 
-
        
Avoid the limelight and do your things without expecting to be noticed or appreciated
 


 
-
        
Avoid extremes, either is bad and loss of grip or control on issues
 


 
-
        
Always be careful whatever you do; mistakes like spilled milk are forever regrettable
 


 
-
        
Do not share family secrets out there with other people
 


 
-
        
Do no ever decline responsibility
 


 
-
        
Learn to live with problems as if they were not there
 


 
-
        
The nice people most of the times boring
 


 
-
        
Disagreement is bad, at all cost avoid it because it is personal in nature
 


 
-
        
Bully or sympathize and you will easily gain control over others
 


 
-
        
Speak loudly with exaggerated signals to get attention
 


 
-
        
Other people’s feelings are your too – if one is not well everyone is not well
 


 
-
        
Take full control things and people around you to be assured of your safety today and tomorrow
 


 
Think of the following:
 


 
-
        
Is your family system rigid? Everyone has their roles, and they do not need to be helped to do their chores. No one gets involved in the welfare of the other hence everyone acts out in ways unfamiliar to the rest. There lacks versatility in what one can do.
 


 
-
        
Is there inconsistency in the way of doing things? Does the incapacitation of one party cause the things to be done in ways that are interconnected?
 


 
-
        
Is the system becoming unpredictable for the future? Are there signs of uncertainty where resources are likely to dwindle and render the family into crisis living, for instance?
 


 
-
        
Is the system impulsive? Are decisions being arrived at out of anxiety and in a reactionary manner rather than logically?
 


 
-
        
Is the system closed? If one acts in a manner contradictory to what is the norm in the family, they are reprimanded. Nothing comes in new; nothing comes out different.
 


 















Chapter 8: The Human Magnet Syndrome
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The experience of falling in love can be indescribable. You cannot tell why, cannot explain how you just feel irresistibly drawn to someone as magnets do. Little do you know when you actually get allured into leaving your goals and wishes, and even your will for what suddenly turns feeling much less like love. People are drawn onto love much more by some invisible forces than what they think, feel, and see. This strange force of attraction seems to work so naturally that the parties tend to flow along and think it is okay and in fact go their way to justify how it happened.
 


 
Codependents are naturally passive members who automatically take on the role of the follower in the relationship. On the other hand, narcissists are naturally assumed and the leadership role, deciding how and where to direct the relationship. The narcissist and the codependent, on a conscious level, feel they are matches as soulmates. However, underneath, there lie deeper and darker feelings of anger, frustration, resentment, and pain.  These feelings reflect the emerging dysfunctional patterns that eventually show up.
 


 
Narcissists and codependents are brought together by psychological forces that function subconsciously, reflexively, and repetitively leading them into a long-term relationship in which they consciously experience each other irresistibly desirably. And these forces get stronger and stronger with time. The attraction is normally overwhelmingly strong for codependents. They become addicted to it. They are compelled to seek closeness with their partner with the view to soothe the intense emotional pain that has been with them since before.
 


 
People fall for unmatched romantic partners for certain characteristics of familiarity, which are actually dysfunctional relationship patterns, not so perceived at the start. The relationship we experience with our parents laid certain patterns which form the instinct that we use to judge our romantic relationships. There exists an instinctive sense of calmness, familiarity, and safety that underlines interactions between people who are having a romantic company based on a preformed and matched relationship template.
 


 
 The two become infatuated or obsessed with each other, and typically involuntarily experience this as a strong desire for reciprocation of feelings, though not necessarily sexual. Lovers express each other depending on their relationship orientation. The others-relationship orientation focuses mainly on giving love, care, and respect, while the self-relationship orientation focuses on receiving care, respect, and love.
 


 
Couples often play within such a relationship in a manner that they balance their orientations and subconsciously keep an equilibrium that is autonomous, lacking in health and dysfunction. Things are not good, but they are not bad either. Compatibility in relationships is not fixed. While our personalities may differ greatly but the human spirit and psyche are capable of achieving compatibility.
 


 
It begins with developing understanding. Codependents have a deficit of self-love. They sacrifice themselves for others. Their circumstances from childhood seem to progress from attachment trauma with their caretakers, then core shame when they fail to regard themselves as worth beings, then pathological loneliness as they become withdrawn from the world, and finally addiction to relationship at a stage where they desire to find with themselves by searching for that in their partners hence not loving themselves at all - self-love deficit disorder.
 


 
By understanding the human magnet syndrome, codependents embark on their recovery journey towards self-love abundance. They need to focus on understanding and breaking away from their addictive pathological relationships. Mastering the power and control tactics used by narcissists, setting, and observing sound self0boundaries, addressing their subconscious traumas, and moving from disregarding to embracing their self-love will help to consciously transition into self-love abundant relationships. It is not normally an easy road to travel and may take time, but such is how the biggest payoffs are worked toward.
 


 
 
 


 
The Codependence Dilemma
 


 
Codependent Men
 


 
Only a few men discuss their relationship problems with their friends and family. They internalize their hurts, live in denial, suffer silently, and are addicted to numbness to their needs and feelings. Rather than attract attention, they try doing the right things, being good sons, siblings, husbands, and fathers, to the extent of abandoning their duties of making a living for themselves and their wives and children and meeting their needs as well. Codependent men think that spending time away from their wives is being selfish, and that way sacrifice themselves.
 


 
Men are viewed as strong and as not having the need to express their feelings or needs and can be shamed for it. Hence, they turn to addiction to cope, mainly by living in denial of their needs, suppressing their feelings, and losing control.
 


 
Men who grow up in dysfunctional families do not find safe to express their feelings and needs. It is easier to ignore criticized feelings and denied or shamed needs. Age-inappropriate duties during a man’s growing are evidence of ignored childhood. This could be because the parents lacked control, irresponsible or immature in some way. Growing up amid chaos and conflicts in family forces one to exercise self-control in order to survive. This very self-control could lead you into an inactive life, avoiding extremes and seeking to live on the lowest edge.
 


 
Men who think their wives are codependent, are most likely codependent themselves too. Oftentimes codependent men embrace needy, demanding, jealous, or critical women. These men end up being dependent on the approval of their wives, whose demands, expectations, and manipulations can be trapping. Abusive, or ever demanding or unappreciative women are kept by codependent husbands. Their men cannot set boundaries and live in fear of emotional vengeance and refutation, including being denied sex.
 


 
Paradoxically too, very emotional wives can provide a sense of aliveness that compensates for the coldness that their codependent husbands harbor within. This can cheer up a man in the start showing him as powerful and sensitive to his wife, who needs extra care or attention or gifts. Long after he has conformed to her expectations, assured of her loyalty, he realizes it never gets enough satisfying her. She could simply be desperate or addicted to something and will keep desiring more of it all the time.
 


 
Workaholic men try to justify themselves for time alone, but leave their need for nurturing, freedom, respect, appreciation, etc. unmet. There is the caliber of men who stick around their wives physically but withdraw into emotional bubbles then become resented for feeling trapped or controlled. The wives are no cause in this case, but the man’s own codependence tendencies.
 


 
Naturally, a wife who often wants more intimacy from her man brings him to therapy. She wants him to open up and share his feelings freely. While the man is fully capable of communicating his feelings, setting healthy boundaries, and being just assertive, he reacts to criticism and demands by fighting back, withdrawing, or endlessly apologizing for sufficient reasons.
 


 
Some codependent men endure abuse from their wives because they know they will not be believed by authorities calling their wives abusive. Occasionally, their wives do or threaten to lie instead, accusing their victim partners of the violence. The man then chooses to keep it secret, silently suffering from the inside.
 


 
Addicted Men are codependent. Whether it is alcohol, drug, gambling, food, sex, or work, that is what they turn to for modulation of their attitude and self-esteem.
 
 


 
Codependency in Women
 


 
More women than men are codependent. The following are some of the reasons for it.
 


 
Biologically, women thrive on relationships. They are more sensitive to feelings, and they bond more easily and deeply. Under stress, they seek to care for children and make friendships. Men prepare for attack when stressed. Women prepare to love and be loved instead.
 


 
Women are more emotionally involved with their parents and, therefore, husbands. Losing a relationship is most painful to them. Threats of separation create a lot of anxiety for them, and autonomy is not something they naturally prefer.
 


 
Generally, also, women are subordinate to men in terms of handling money, entitlement to rights, and access to power. They have learned to be compliant in these ways. They endure more trauma and abuse than men, hence acquiring lower self-esteem by default. 
 


 
Men are generally more drawn toward independence and autonomy than women. Women are more restricted and do not have more natural willingness and power to fight for their certain freedoms. Women are also granted less opportunity for independent life progress.
 


 
 
 


 
Overcoming Childhood Emotional Negligence
 


 
Childhood emotional negligence happens when parents are unable to respond to their child’s emotional needs adequately. This sets up a child for codependence growing up into adulthood. Most codependence cases arise from this childhood emotional negligence or at least stem from events that happen in one’s earlier days of life. So how should one handle this when they realize it?
 




 
Acknowledge how it occurred and how it affected you
 




 
Ask yourself whether the negligence was on the part of one or both parents. See whether they were struggling with something themselves, or whether they were just selfish to you. Think of whether they neglected you actively or passively, and whether they portrait generosity or meanness in the course of it. Then acknowledge how that has affected you in your adult life. This will help you to shift from shame and self-blame and validate your experience.
 




 
Realize that you still have your feelings
 




 
Your emotions are with you. You might only have been cautious earlier to protect yourself and tried to suppress them, but they are still accessible. You can reach them and use them to manage them.
 




 
Recognize your feelings
 




 
The emotions that you grew up with actually are the opposite of what you need to feel. With care and attentiveness, whenever you detect your emotion, ask whether it resembles what you learned growing up and reach for the opposite of it. Where you feel vulnerable, you are strong. You are not unworthy, you have high self-esteem, etc. Honor your authentic feelings and intuition. You are right to trust your feelings and act according to them.
 




 
Grow your tolerance
 




 
Learn to sit with painful or strong feelings while focusing on acting not by them but by your sober judgment. This how you begin to overcome the negativity you have already been carrying by now.
 




 
Monitor your changing likes and dislikes
 




 
Write down your daily happenstances of likes and dislikes and detail them just adequately, however big, or small. This will start to guide you on how to make yourself happier under given any circumstances.
 




 
Develop and practice self-compassion
 




 
You are most like kinder to others than to yourself. But start to realize that you have rights equally as the others. Do not be harsh on yourself for your mistakes and failures. Handle yourself with care, as you do to others. Build your self-love.
 




 
Be sensitive to anger
 




 
Anger is the one emotion which, when blocked or over-expressed, will eat you up. Find a way to release it moderately, and you will soon be soothed and empowered against it.
 




 
Learn to be assertive
 




 
This is important when you have to deal with emotions of anger. Let people know your needs, feelings, and opinions. Do not hold back. Respect yourself by speaking up, and you will be respected too.
 


 
 
 


 
Characteristics of a Mindful Relationship
 


 
Let us begin out by describing a healthy relationship using a few, some even subtle details.
 




 
You know each other’s best friends of either gender and can point out positive things about them, including their importance in your partner’s life.
 


 
You are playful with each other.
 


 
You think your partner has constructive ideas and actually regard them positively, even trying them out.
 


 
You admire more in your partner and wish to take on more of their values for your better being.
 


 
You know your partner has valuable facts and points, though you may not be agreeable to all of them.
 


 
You always think of each other even when physically distant and away.
 


 
You find total trust in your partner.
 


 
You find your partner more attractive relationship-wise than themselves or others do.
 


 
You admire the growth your partner has exhibited ever since you met and are happy about it.
 


 
Your partner is optimistic about your successes and becomes enthusiastic when you achieve more in your life.
 


 
You see the positive things about each other first before pointing on what negatives that need change or improvement.
 


 
You think about your past together and are happy and find them admirable even in the current moment.
 


 
You know your partners’ favorite book and what it is about, as well as what it says about them.
 


 
You know your partner’s goals, objectives, and aspirations in life.
 


 
You still remember with fondness some new and challenging task you went through some time in the past.
 


 
You kiss every day.
 


 
You are comfortable telling your partner about your worries and vulnerabilities and can listen to their bit too – and share on how you can help each other in such moments.
 


 
You have a love language between yourselves and are aware of personalized gestures that fit for each other.
 


 
You know the embarrassments your partner has come through from their childhood.
 


 
You know the proudest moments from their childhood.
 


 
You rarely show contempt in your partner, e.g. by rolling your eyes, sneering, swearing them, or labeling or calling them names.
 


 
You know the positive traits that your partner inherited from their parents.
 




 
 
 


 
A healthy relationship is worked at. It does not happen by itself or by default. The couple can mindfully work together to elevate their relationship status in the following ways.
 


 
Couples who like disconnecting from their gadgets and be in the moment with each other by focusing and looking onto each other exclusively when they are together are mindful of their relationship. They listen actively to each other with eyes, ears, body, and heart. They cease what they are thinking and listen to what their partner has to say. They listen with curiosity and ask questions in order to get every detail and make their partner know they understand.
 


 
You create time to think of the moments you make each other happy and feel gratitude for them. Feeling grateful sets your minds and hearts for more happy moments to come. You enjoy moments of silence together. You do not always have to be talking to connect. You still hear each out without in your silence. You do not react to each other with anger. You consciously factor each other feelings in exchanges and take steps to maintain a rational tone and thought process through hard conversations.
 


 
You envision your future interactions together and set out goals and targets on what you are going to do in the course of time to get their someday. Such goals include each other’s growth or fun moments to come. You also engage in caring actions to make each other feel good and happy about themselves and have made a commitment to do specific special things on a regular basis, e.g. buying flowers or holding hands.
 


 
Mindfulness in relationships includes daily appreciation. You take your turns every evening to be grateful for what each of you has done or said or thought or is planning. You take time to explain the details of it and how that makes you happy or feel special or loved in each other’s care. Do spend time to gaze in each other’s eyes and notice how stronger your bonds will grow with time.
 


 
Whenever you first see each other, after a few hours or even minutes away, embrace before saying anything until both of you come to a point where you feel you are relaxing. It feels good relaxing in each other’s arms first thing before you think of the next concerns, great or small. Breathe together. Hold each other closely like in an embrace any slow down your breaths and take breaths together, counting say to ten. It is relaxing and reassuring.
 


 
Converse mindfully too. You talk to each other with open minds and without judging each other in a way or the other. Be present throughout the conversation; however, deep or humorous the conversation gets. Mindfulness in relationships invokes feelings of compassion too. Consider how much your partner has endured reaching where they are in life as well as many sacrifices they have made to be with you in spite of their demanding careers or extended family needs.
 


 
Practice mindfulness meditation together. Meditate together. Find one from YouTube, or download onto your phone and play it as you together take in the exercise. It creates a connection point between the two of you that is deeper than anyone could possibly explain. Mindful touching is good for both of you. Create time to be touching each other in an intentional manner. Be fully present and purposeful with what you are doing.
 


 
Finally, always think before you speak. Think about what you want to say, and make sure you are clear with what you want your partner to know and the kind of response they could give or associated action. Beware of your feelings and emotions, too, and make sure you package your communications in a way that is easily receivable, understandable, and actionable. Whatever the communication, you must seek to foster the strength of your bond than end up at the exchange alone.
 


 















Chapter 9: How to Avoid Codependent Relationships
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Begin by consciously avoiding being a codependent yourself. Educate yourself on what it means to be codependent, simply giving to get. Trying to sustain a relationship by constantly doing all you can in order to draw gain, especially social and emotional, from your partner ultimately drains the relationship dry. You could try out the following alternatives instead.
 


 
 
 


 
How to Fix Your Codependent Relationship
 


 
Consider Getting Counseling
 


 
If you want to invest in and make your relationship healthy, begin by getting healthy yourself. Find counseling services from a friend you know and trust can help you grow or from a professional social or emotional counselor. The professionals may sound a bit tougher than your friends, but when the deepest concerns are handled with the necessary seriousness, then you will have more to benefit going forward.
 




 
Give you 100% to without expecting anything in return
 




 
Unconditional love runs on this motto. Understand this kind of love, then go ahead and give it away. The relationship will grow when you both play your parts without expecting rewards in return. Spend the available time possible with your partner, and enjoy and appreciate your relationship simply as it is. You do not need to center all your life on the relationship alone and neglect your career, friends, hobbies as well as your individual needs. Whatever your input into your relationship, do not sacrifice your resources or resent their relevance to your partner and relationship. Moreover, take good care of yourself and your needs without expecting a helping hand from your partner. Take care of yourself so you can take care of your partner and other people without feeling exhaustion.
 




 
Address the causatives to your hurts
 




 
Whenever you feel hurt and get angry, be willing, and ready to search and find the root of your behaviors that hurt you back and work at addressing them at their root, not symptomatic, level. Is it that you respond quickly? Then learn to count to ten while holding your breath before you talk. Getting to the root of your behavior enables you to explain to your partner what exactly happened and how it got you hurt. This way the relationship is built, because you communicate better and are understood better.
 




 
Set your boundaries and hold them
 




 
Understand the concept of boundaries and personal space and define yours. Make them known clearly and precisely to your counterpart, not neglecting any areas that you may allow for discussions and negotiations. Learn your partner's boundaries and respect them too. Getting hurt or angry means your boundary was violated. You need to identify exactly what specific issue was invaded and bring it to your partner’s knowledge in a clear manner. Boundaries help you not to be haphazard at addressing issues, but you are capable of identifying issues and underlining facts about them with rationality and judgment. Be assertive at outlining and defending your boundaries.
 




 
Avoid insults and unnecessary argument
 




 
Avoid labeling and calling your partner with all sorts of bad names. Focus on speech on what you feel, what you need, and the backing facts or illustrations. Speaking in the right manner sends the message home and prompts for a constructive response from your partner as opposed to harsh statements, which are more likely to be negative, lacking in facts, and therefore ignored altogether.
 




 
Filter the real messages in your partner’s insults at you
 




 
Instead of taking the whole detail of the insult at you and understanding it at the surface level, try to go for the real complaint and seek to find out how it is hurting them and how you can resolve it going forward. If you are doing your best at something, but they demand more, then make them understand what you do to achieve what you achieve so they may appreciate it like that or offer actionable help in that regard. Plain insults, however, should not go unaddressed.  If your partner simply needs to more careful with the way they address you, then you must let them know it.
 




 
Conflicts arise in relationships
 




 
Conflicts never actually completely cease in relationships. So rather than be concerned that they arise, notice their reducing frequencies, and invest in lengthening the periods to the subsequent. Study and understand how your partner wants to resolve issues versus your own. Talk about your resolution preferences and strategies. If both of you consider each other’s approaches and blend them appropriately, then conflicts will be fun resolving than potential points of differences. Use what works out in each case for the victim.
 




 
Identify and work on addictions
 




 
If your partner is an addict, be sensitive to the kinds of mind games they play with you. Read about addictions, addicts, and their leading and consequential behaviors and patterns. Make a checklist and check against each item with the effect it causes to the relationship. You might also investigate how you get blinded by their tricks and be smarter how you should subsequently address their addiction trends and tricks. Recognize too that an attempt to break from addiction will not be received positively at the start. With patience and regular conversation on where you want to lead your lives and relationship, it can be worth it to endure in the meantime.
 




 
Investigate your supporting patterns to addiction
 




 
Are you doing some things that are encouraging addiction, weakness, and vices in your partner? Are you giving too much than necessary? Are you succumbing to their certain unjustifiable demands? If there are any of those, then you need to find a way of toning down on them, and substituting, where necessary and possible, with better alternatives.
 




 
Do not try to control your partner's life
 




 
Try to be open-minded on issues and things that regard both your relationship and you as individuals. Do not try to outwit your partners using empathy or cruelty into having things your way. When you offer something, your partner is at liberty to offer a reward when they wish or not do it at all. But at the same time, your partner should make decisions for the two of you without consulting you. It is a bad sign and needs to be investigated and addressed constructively.
 


 
 
 


 
Habits of a Mindful Partner
 


 
Mindfulness can be spread to all aspects of life. It helps us to avoid and deal with stress, and to stay in the best form for productivity and progress. These are benefits we need to incorporate into our relationships too for less stress, more connectedness, and a better understanding of our partners.
 




 
Meditate together
 




 
Create time to do yoga, reflect, meditate, listen to music, dance, and other mindfulness exercises together. This helps in improving communication between the two of you and enhances your togetherness.
 




 
Light up the bedroom
 




 
Be enthusiastic, curious, and fascinated by the sexual response of your partner. Find out what works out for your partner and try to give them that during intercourse. Listen and create humor about it. Such attitudes reward with exponential results within and outside the bedroom. Pay attention and be mindfully involved with your partner between the sheets.
 




 
Take breaks together
 




 
However busy you may get at what you do, it takes a few minutes of quiet together to recharge or reassure. Just be willing to pause, have a quick hug, take a deep breath together, and then continue your way.
 




 
Create time for couple care
 




 
Couple care is actually self-care with your partner.  Time is limited and crucially scarce, yes, but you need to try and find time to have a shower together or any activity that is pampering or therapeutic. Just have it happen, and it will reward greatly to both of you. Make a quiet date night a priority, and then treat yourselves.
 




 
Spend time outside together
 




 
Urban living and bad weather might sometimes make you stay indoors for so long and forget proper outdoor time. But just spending time outside, walking the streets, connecting with nature, or just appreciating weather changes in a 10 – 30-minute walk is all you need. Or just basking together for vitamin D. there is nothing so serious about it, but it is very important.
 




 
Solve problems mindfully
 




 
Mindfulness during moments of difficulty can help with communication. What is your partner’s unique, personalized signals by which you can communicate the hardest messages favorably? Gentle hand squeezes for calming your partner, or patting on their shoulders could send messages that could keep them listening or talking at a controlled tone. Create ways to air your emotions out without fear of resentment, and you will enjoy responding to issues that concern both of you no matter the difficulty.
 




 
Unplug together
 




 
Turn off your gadgets together and enjoy the silence that comes with it. Turn off the TV, phones, laptops, etc. and just be by yourselves talking about everything and nothing. Or make fun of how many times you peep at your phone and what that could mean lightly. Find befitting time for both of you, and you are likely to keep doing this more and more.
 


 
As you share in these mindful moments, remember to apply rules not as individuals but as a couple. Incorporating mindfulness into your relationship will foster your feelings of more calmness and closeness every next time.
 


 
 
 


 
A Healthy Relationship
 


 
We all want to develop an ideal relationship, especially with our life partners. An ideal relationship needs to be seamlessly mutually supportive, easy, and nourishing to the two souls involved. This, however, is not normally the case.
 


 
Each one has their individual idiosyncrasies and oddities that are unique. No one shares the exact same idiosyncrasies with another. Hence the parties must adapt to each other as not everything about our spouses are exactly as we would like. While adapting to certain idiosyncrasies and behavioral patterns can be quite normal and necessary, but adapting oneself to your partner to the extent of losing yourself can make you dysfunctional. Codependency set in at that point.
 


 
Change, in a healthy relationship, is an unavoidable ingredient. This requires you to always be sensitive to the feel of the relationship and open to identifying any dysfunctions in it. This awareness of yourself or your partner should lead you to the next stage of talking about dysfunctions and working together to bring about a constructive change for yourselves and the relationship.
 


 
Our natural instinctive tendencies to adaptation blur our ability to identifying dysfunctionality. Hence the dysfunction may grow over time and take even years before we feel something is wrong and requires attention or correction. It takes conscious effort to identify and precisely name what is causing concerns in the relationship. Not only will this will take its time to be reached, but how the partners can get together to actively work at effecting smooth, healthy change at it can be another time-consuming and uphill task. Oftentimes, unfortunately, the people get overly used to the dysfunctions and consider change as attempted manipulation by their partners and choose to quit the relationship.
 


 
Relationships are not perfect or ideal for lack of dysfunctionality. Ideals in the relationship should entail the evenness of the partners to cooperate when identifying, detailing, discussing, and effecting a change following a dysfunction. This calls for openness from both of them. The relationship then becomes more strengthened, enriched, nourished, and cultured. Going through dysfunctionalities together over the years makes the relationship more precious, treasured, and appreciated. Sharing through challenges makes a relationship beautiful, comradely, and stronger.
 


 
Adaptation, this was is a good thing –advancing to a different, better way of living together. Life and its dynamics are continually evolving. So, too, must couples always keep monitoring the character of their relationship, willingly work with it to implement healthy changes in it, and then re-adapt to the next dynamic once again.
 


 
A healthy, non-codependent relationship is thus realized and fortified through constructive adaptation and positive change. The couple supports each other in their self-actualization. Their individual and effective sense of who and what it is they are flourishes and manifests through the relationship. The individual pursues their individual interests as well as share others while interchanging the leading roles along the way as situations demand or are discerned. Couples in a healthy relationship vibrate independently, fully self-actualized, yet in an amplified harmony with one another.
 


 















Chapter 10: Healing from Codependency
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Just like any other challenge that we face in life and we are able to get the remedy for, codependency can as well be overcome if the necessary steps are taken with a keen interest in ensuring that the desired result of getting over it is achieved. Codependency is a trait that is majorly attained by looking at what our role models do, and we tend to take up and follow their traits. This, therefore, follows the fact that it is not a permanent behavioral challenge to worry about so much. It can be undone. It is all about one being open-minded, bold, and courageous enough to come out of the stressful life and begin being yourself.
 


 
Being happy and healthy is a choice that one makes, and for a codependent person, you first of all need to accept the fact that you are one then get the right steps you ought to follow in order to understand that life is majorly about you before anyone else comes in. We should always endeavor to lead a happy life that makes us take charge of ourselves other than putting the interest of other people, and ours come second. Strive to satisfy yourself and from that point, you have begun a successful journey of overcoming codependency. Some of the things one has to do in order to come out of codependency include but not limited to, the following as explained below.
 


 
 
 


 
Be Sincere to Yourself and Those Close to You
 


 
At all times in our life, we should always work towards ensuring that we are doing everything possible to be true to ourselves and even to those we perceive to care so much about. We should always do what our mind and soul has agreed and accepted that it is the right thing to do other than doing something to make somebody else happy yet your mind and personality does not agree with what your friend may want you to do in order for you to make him happy. This causes a lot of strain on your part, for you will be fighting internally to see whether there will be any consequences when you do something contrary to your heart’s desire. Whenever we do things that we do not want to do, our clock in life would have ticked, yet we would not have done anything meaningful with ourselves, yet such time will never present itself again to us so that we can undo what we would be regretting to have done.
 


 
Further uttering sentiments that we do not mean as well makes us be insincere to ourselves. We should always find joy in saying the truth under any circumstances in life. Making promises which you as a person are fully aware that you can’t meet them is stressing yourself, and creating fear in your life for a time will come for you to fulfill the promise you may never be in a position to do it. Never at any point in life should we make others happy by promising them heaven when, in a real sense, it is going to be strenuous on your part, or maybe you can never attain it. Life is a cycle, and one is not supposed to blame the other if he or she is not in a position to meet some of the things in life and, therefore, never force yourself to promise what we can’t get. Live your life as you are not the way you want somebody else to be. Be real.
 


 
 
 


 
 
Avoid Destructive Thoughts
 


 
Life has many sides, and one has to decide very well which side of life he wants life to live to offer him. This solely depends on what you will be feeding your brain for whatever the mind eats is specifically what will be produced from it. This then means that you should do away with negative thoughts that will make you have a downcast face and this as well leads to a destructive life for the mind will have been polluted completely with the negative thoughts. Let us fill our minds with possibilities more than impossibilities. If we go through a tough moment at a specific time in our life, we should just know that it is part of life and it will come to pass just as it came. Just like we have the drought season when we scarcely have seen anything green in our fields and its dust all over that we may fear to walk out there, a time comes when it rains again and we are able to see the beautiful nature of GOD as well as appreciate that it is no longer hot as it used to be during the time of drought. God balances our lives in his own way and so we shouldn’t give up just because of a challenge that has been presented in our life. It will pass.
 


 
Remain optimistic at all times. Optimism is an ingredient that always catalyzes us to make the next step, for we know that if you remain where you are then you won't make any difference with our lives or even ourselves. Have hope that the future is bright and it will actually come to be.
 


 
 
 


 
Don’t Be Personal on Issues
 


 
When you engage in a talk with any person, we should always be objective that we do not feel their sentiments are majorly meant to hurt us. Each and every person has his or her own way of communicating with people to people, and we are supposed to understand them so that we are not offended whenever they talk to us, for their intention may never be to offend anyone. Taking things personal only hurts you and affects your self-esteem negatively, thus not being able to relate with others well as well as fearing to socialize and relate with people well when real sense there was nothing worth to make anyone fear. Understanding the people we talk to and the perspective in which the talk has taken is crucial to being able to control yourself and avoid being easily swayed into the temptation of seeing others as possible enemies when they are simply passing across their views on the topic of discussion.
 


 
It is also not possible that you are the target on the issues of discussion every time you meet with your friends for the issues of discussion are varied and they are also very many. Just relax whenever in a talk and take part in the discussion freely without fearing that whatever they talk about as much as it may have traces of your life, it may not necessarily be talking about you. Take yourself to be mature enough to understand that what people talk about is majorly what affects us, and therefore, they may talk about what you are going through without necessarily knowing that their talk is majorly inclined on your life. Swallow it comfortably and take in the utterances that may help you and forget about those that may make fidget a bit as you think about them. Life is beyond people's talk, how they address you, how they look at you or even how you think they think about you. You are you. Make a living out of yourself and be happy.
 


 
 
 


 
 
Accept Help
 


 
As a human being, whenever we are faced with a problem which proves difficult to handle, we should always find some other ways of ensuring that we handle it without any further delay. If we have not been able to handle it on our own then we ought to get out there and get people who can help us be able to get some reassurance in life. This means that you get out of your situation by getting people you can talk to, and they are able to help you come out of the situation you are facing. It should be understood though, that not everybody can take that role of helping those who are going through tough times as one who going through codependency.  We, therefore, have to get those friends we have trust in and believe will always listen to us and take necessary steps in ensuring that we get the required help in order to be comfortable in our lives.
 


 
A difference cannot be found unless we take a different course of action on what affects our lives as such. We are the drivers of our life, and therefore, whenever we see that our lives are not going in the direction we want, we should be bold enough to come up and take the necessary measures. Counseling is one of these measures that help one overcome codependency. Get the help of a counselor or even a psychiatrist. These are the people who will lead you slowly by slowly through the process of recovery. Accept their views for they are taken from a professional point of view and help one come out of this situation successfully and be able to lead a normal life afterward. Accepting that you need help and going for it makes the greatest difference.
 


 
 
 


 
Take Care of Yourself
 


 
In life, there are very many people we do relate with, and at times, we are too much attached to some of them that we often think of making them happy and forget about our own life. This may majorly affect those in an affectionate relationship in that one partner may tend to care too much about the other party and forget to allocate some time for themselves. This is not healthy at all, for we are always supposed to be mentally stable ourselves before we can go out of our way to help another person who might be in need of help. Always have your time alone to bring out your real rare identity may not be easily found when you have dedicated the whole of your time to making somebody else comfortable. 
 


 
Seeing your closest friend suffering over a certain issue may frustrate your heart so much, but you can never be in a position to deal with such a scenario if you, as a person, are not in a position to deal with your own problems and fears in life. Face life and work towards ensuring that you get your best out of your own life then you can be in a position to spread it to some other people out there. Be at peace with yourself.
 


 
 
 


 
Identify Your Boundaries
 


 
We should never live our lives as if we do not know where we are coming from and where we are heading. Always know how much you can handle in terms of arguments or any other engagements so that it does not turn out to be stress on your part. This makes you be aware of yourself, and therefore, you are on top of things. Work smart always and ensure that you don’t cross your own boundaries.
 


 















Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
You have by now been able to understand the roles that partners take on in any relationship. You now know yourself as a narcissist or a codependent, or otherwise and interdependent partner. If you are a narcissist, you are now aware of your proneness for power and likely addictions, which are actually in control of you, and not you are controlling them.  For the codependent you are now aware of your tendencies avoid responsibility of yourself for other people.
 


 
Everyone desires for a perfect relationship. But this is not attained in principle alone. It takes effort. The human magnet syndrome has revealed to you how you might have ended up in your relationship without due consideration. But you have also gained helpful insights on how to rectify your behaviors and lead your relationships in a conscious manner in order to bring it to the standards you wish for yourself and your loved one.
 


 
Narcissism and codependence do not just erupt in adulthood. These are behaviors that are one adapts to from childhood. Childhood emotional negligence is discussed, and strategies for overcoming its effects explained in adequate detail. These attachment styles occur in different relationship types, but the similarities and differences in each have been explored. Narcissists exhibit self-centeredness in their desires, but so do codependences, though they may seem to have a different disposition on the surface.
 


 
A narcissist and a codependent can, however co-exist. This is explained in the healing processes and explaining how you can understand your partner of a different attachment style from your own, and how you can adjust your behaviors to accommodate and probably improve your partner’s values and personality. This is explained in the healing process. With commitment from all parties, relationships can become ideal as desired by members. You now know how an ideal relationship works.
 


 















BOOK 8
 


 
Narcissist and Empath
 


 
 
 


 
 


 















 


 
Introduction
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The intersectionality of narcissism and empathy has not gone unnoticed in the psychological community. Although the narcissist is an individual who is naturally at odds with the sensitive, perhaps even hypersensitive type, which the empath is, the narcissist and the empath naturally cross paths precisely because of their differences. As the saying goes, opposites attract, and the traits of the narcissist that would repel those who are cognizant of the narcissistic art, these same traits seem to attract the empath.
 


 
The narcissist is a natural manipulator, someone who creates a false persona and then uses the tools of manipulation to enforce their will on the other person. Although the narcissist can be manipulative with anyone, the empath is a particular target of the narcissist because of qualities of theirs that render them vulnerable to manipulation and clueless to the actions of the manipulator.
 


 
Although the creation of a false persona serves a benefit to the narcissist, they form this identity as a result of their underlying psychological dysfunction. Psychoanalysts from Freud to Adler have discussed the narcissist and the cause of their condition as almost an embodiment of one of the most dysfunctional and dangerous personality types that a human being can possess. Although much of Freudian psychoanalysis has been shelved because of its focus on libido as a motivation for human behavior, the Freudian approach to narcissists has not been disregarded. Indeed, it forms the center point of many of the more recent theories about narcissism.
 


 
The narcissist possesses a false self, one that is idealized and which sits at the center of a world based on its will. Just as the young child sees the role of the parent as an agent to fulfill its needs, so too does the narcissist see others as extensions of their own self. In this construct, other individuals do not have an identity that is equal to the identity of the narcissist. Their role is to enable and uphold the false belief of the narcissist, a process that often involves abuse.
 


 
The empath, too, possesses a false self, but where the false self of the narcissist is idealized, superior, and abusive, the self of the empathic person is sensitive, pliant, and vulnerable to manipulation. In 
Narcissist and Empath: Guide for Self-Healing After Narcissistic Abuse; How to Fight Narcissism and Codependency in a Narcissistic Relationship; Master Your Emotions and Stop Being Manipulated
, we will explore hot precisely the narcissist lures the empath and weakens them, preventing them from leaving the relationship.
 


 
Because empaths naturally possess emotional awareness and are able to experience the subjective emotional states of others, they wear their hearts on their sleeves, so to speak. This is not necessarily a problem, as human beings naturally respond to cues from others to form bonds and facilitate interaction, but the narcissist is a particular creature who can use the vulnerabilities of others against them. One of the goals of this book is to help the empath to understand how they can protect themselves from the narcissist.
 


 
Unfortunately, most empaths do not realize that they have fallen under the spell of the narcissist until it’s too late. When you embark on this sort of relationship, you sign a contract of sorts that allows the narcissist to engage in emotional manipulation and abuse. We can call this a contract because the narcissist has caused you to believe in their idealized, false self. The true self of the narcissist - one that is insecure and has a need for admiration and validation from others - remains entirely hidden from you.
 


 
 
 


 
In 
Narcissist and Empath: Guide for Self-Healing After Narcissistic Abuse; How to Fight Narcissism and Codependency in a Narcissistic Relationship; Master Your Emotions and Stop Being Manipulated
, you will learn to recognize codependency: both the narcissist's and your own. Indeed, one of the fascinating aspects of narcissistic relationships is that both partners possess a form of codependency, although they serve different purposes. The role of the empath's codependency is to enable the narcissistic personality disorder of their partner while the narcissist's own codependency utilizes abuse as a tool to keep the weakened empath in the relationship. Your continued presence in this unhealthy relationship helps uphold the narcissist's self-esteem, preventing them from facing the reality of their true selves.
 


 
The continued presence of the empath in the narcissistic relationship does great harm. Aside from the emotional abuse that leaves the empath depressed and anxious, often fearing further interaction with the partner, although they do not know why, this type of relationship can leave the partner (in this case, the empath), feeling great isolation. Isolation weakens the will of the empath to fight back and free themselves, and can even sap their will to live. Isolation, in turn, leads to disconnection, which can have even more drastic consequences.
 


 
But the empath has points of strength, though they are often unaware. Empathy exists in human beings because it is adaptive, serving an essential purpose in the complex interplay that human beings have with one another. Indeed, the narcissist uses the natural tools of this complex interaction against the empath, an act of which the target is completely unaware. In 
Narcissist and Empath: Guide for Self-Healing After Narcissistic Abuse; How to Fight Narcissism and Codependency in a Narcissistic Relationship; Master Your Emotions and Stop Being Manipulated
, we will learn how empaths can tap into their natural power to recover from the effects of narcissism.
 


 
In the first chapter, we will tackle the narcissistic relationship from the standpoint of the empath: a common partner of the narcissist. Empaths have been the focus of much attention lately as psychologists and other social scientists begin to pay more heed to emotional intelligence and its central role in human life. As one of the primary components of emotional intelligence, empathy is a characteristic of human beings that is essential to human interactions.
 


 
Although empathy may be normal for humans, the empath is a special quantity that deserves further exploration. Empaths are particularly sensitive, using their emotional connection with others as a guide for their actions. Much of this book focuses on the pitfalls of empathy, both directly and indirectly, but it is important to recognize also the strengths of these individuals. This and other topics related to empaths will be addressed in chapter one.
 


 
In the second chapter, we will tackle the most difficult subject of all when it comes to narcissistic relationships: the narcissist themselves. This person is a Pandora's box of false identities and dysfunctional behaviors. The narcissist themselves generally lacks an understanding of why they engage in this behavior or that. To complicate matters even further, narcissistic behavior is a combination of deliberate, abusive behaviors and actions that they do subconsciously.
 


 
Narcissism may have been named after a Greek character known for his vanity, but there is much more to this personality disorder than that. Indeed, the first step in approaching narcissism is understanding that it is, in fact, a personality disorder that brings along with it a whole constellation of signs and symptoms. The narcissist's favorite target is the empath, and in this chapter, we will tackle the question of why these individuals are the cynosures of such unwanted attention.
 


 
There are many empaths out there, and most of them do not know that they possess this trait. Empaths can feel depressed when there is a depressed individual around them, or they may feel emotionally drained if someone near is agitated. This emotional sensitivity can be a blessing and a curse. In chapter three, we will help the reader determine if they are an empath and what this means in their life.
 


 
If relationships with narcissists were easy, people would not have to read books about it. The internet is filled with self-help articles and books addressing how to deal with narcissistic relationships, many of which fail to recognize one important characteristic of these people: they are often individuals who are very close to us and from whom we cannot part easily.
 


 
To help the reader understand this and other aspects of relationships with narcissists, chapter four will delve into the phases of the narcissistic relationship. Because most relationships with narcissistic romantic partners have an element of deception, it is important for the hapless partner to understand just how the narcissist has accomplished this. They do this by idealizing themselves and the relationship, coercing you into believing and investing in their false self. This is just the first of many tricks the narcissist uses to deceive you.
 


 
Unfortunately, many people involved with narcissists are the targets of abuse. Narcissistic abuse can take many forms, but it most often is a form of emotional abuse that involves belittling, bullying, and manipulation. Even the narcissistic traits of entitlement and superiority are tied to abuse because they allow the narcissist to see you as something less than them. This allows the narcissist to abuse you without feeling sorry for his or her actions.
 


 
The effects of narcissistic abuse are traumatic. Some individuals can experience symptoms that are not unlike those of posttraumatic stress disorder, or PTSD. Men and women with PTSD can experience reliving the traumatic event and hypervigilance, in particular around settings that trigger their memories. This particular constellation of symptoms is related to the brain pathway associated with trauma. This pathway involves a region of the brain called the amygdala, an area associated with memories with a strong fear component. In chapter five, we will discuss the many effects of narcissistic abuse, including the lesser-known, but important, consequences of isolation and disconnection.
 


 
Unfortunately for the partner of the narcissist, certain qualities that they bring to the relationship make them particularly vulnerable to abuse, isolation, and the other characteristics that go along with these relationship types. Codependency is a characteristic of individuals who find themselves in relationships with narcissistic people. Codependent people look to others to fill certain needs that they have, and overcoming codependency issues is an important step for empaths. In the sixth chapter, we will define codependency, discuss what causes it, and address how empaths and others can recover from it.
 


 
Narcissists are often described as energy vampires because of their ability to sap the energy of those around them, particularly those they are close to. The energy vampire can be likened to the true vampires of fiction and legend. These creatures drain the blood of their victims, leaving them denuded of the strength to fight back or recover. Narcissists and others like them accomplish the same result with their targets. Steps that empaths and others can take to help them deal with the energy vampire characteristics of narcissists and others will be discussed in the seventh chapter.
 


 
One of the tools of the energy vampire is manipulation. Indeed, manipulation is so effective of a tactic when used by the energy vampire and narcissist that the victim frequently does not know that they have been manipulated. That being said, manipulation is a charged term that some have sought to rehabilitate. Some argue that manipulation is really just persuasion and that it is an art that is used just as frequently to benefit people as it is used for other reasons.
 


 
In 
Narcissist and Empath: Guide for Self-Healing After Narcissistic Abuse; How to Fight Narcissism and Codependency in a Narcissistic Relationship; Master Your Emotions and Stop Being Manipulated
, we will focus on true manipulation: the type that is most damaging to the empath. This includes emotional manipulation, which can lead the target feeling depressed, anxious, isolated, and unable to protect themselves from abuse. But narcissistic manipulation extends far beyond this. The narcissist engages in the tactics of gaslighting and love-bombing as a form of mind control. In chapter eight, the reader will learn about all of the tactics of narcissistic manipulation and why the narcissist manipulates at all.
 


 
Equipped with the knowledge of the weapons in the manipulative toolkit, the partner of the narcissist can begin to think about how they can fight back. Fighting back involves recognizing the nature of the narcissist and how they operate. Empaths are naturally very different from the narcissist, though they are also inclined toward codependency, so it is important that empaths learn how they modify their behaviors to counteract the narcissist and fight against narcissist they may encounter in the future. This and more will be discussed in the ninth chapter.
 


 
The techniques of narcissistic manipulation are not altogether different from those used by professional manipulators. There is a fringe area of science that is focused on using the natural weakness of people to manipulate them, achieving a type of mind control. This art is known as Neuro-linguistic Programming, or NLP, and studying some of its tools help the empath protect themselves from mind control, which is the subject of the tenth chapter.
 


 
Terminating the narcissistic relationship and protecting oneself from future narcissists is not the end of the narcissism and empathy story. The narcissist can engage in a behavior called hoovering, where they stay in contact with the narcissist in order to be positioned to continue to hurt them and to benefit from the abuse rendered. Once contact with the narcissist is broken, the empath must engage in the process of self-healing. The scars of narcissistic abuse can lie very deep beneath the skin, and the process of healing from them can be long and arduous. The steps of this healing form the subject of chapter twelve.
 


 
Narcissists are all around us; indeed, it has been argued that the world has begun to take on a narcissistic character. In a day and age where we are constantly exposed to information, including the personal information of other people, it is easy for men and women to behave in a narcissistic way, or to become the victims of others who are so inclined. In fact, a fringe area of psychology called dark psychology focuses on some of the more malign motivations of people and how society may permit or encourage them.
 


 
In 
Narcissist and Empath: Guide for Self-Healing After Narcissistic Abuse; How to Fight Narcissism and Codependency in a Narcissistic Relationship; Master Your Emotions and Stop Being Manipulated
, the connection between narcissism and other disorders of dark psychology will be discussed. The goal is to protect the empath from those who are set on harming them. It is also important for the empath to build their defenses as a way of changing their future trajectory. This all begins with understanding their nature as empaths and how they are both different from and susceptible to the narcissist.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 1: What is an Empath?
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Empathy is one of the critical characteristics that makes us human. As human beings, and as animals, we have the capacity to form connections with other humans in ways that are remarkable, unusual, and important. Some have theorized that all life on earth functions as a single organism with different species involved in a complex and mutual beneficial dance with one another. In fact, this sort of dance occurs even within the species, and we as human beings are able to interact in ways that benefit us as individuals and as a species.
 


 
Empathy is one of the tools that humans use to interact with and understand one another. Empathy allows humans to communicate without words: through shared connections that are able to communicate feelings and experiences without the benefit of words. Individuals who display empathy have been shown to be more successful in leadership roles and are rated more highly by their staff.
 


 
Why is empathy important? Empathy is a critical and powerful for a number of reasons, several of which will be explored in this chapter. Empathy has been shown to be related to altruism, which is the capacity to behave in a selfless way and to put the needs of others above your own. Altruism is of benefit to the species as a whole because individuals who behave in this manner increase group success and survival.
 


 
Empathic people, the subject of this chapter, are able to behave altruistically as they demonstrate a deep ability to care for others. There has been much study on how this trait is tied to biology, with scientists shedding light on the role that the frontal cortex plays in the ability to have empathy for others. Without delving too deeply into narcissism at this juncture, narcissists are notable for their lack of empathy, and their inability to care for others as much as they care for themselves. One of the features of the narcissist is a dysfunctional identity that places them at a central and superior position vis-à-vis other people.
 


 
Indeed, the narcissist can be said to have an archaic self, or identity, in which the role of others is little more than to meet their needs. They do not see the selves or identities of others as being equal or even the same as their own. Indeed, the narcissistic person is practically the member of a species with a population of one, and everyone else is something different and less than they are. This world view not only prevents the narcissist from being overly concerned with others; it allows them to behave with remarkable disregard and callousness.
 


 
This is where the empath runs into problems with the narcissist. Although one might imagine that someone as sensitive as the empath would naturally butt heads or be repulsed by the narcissist, in fact, the empath frequently falls victim to this manipulative person, easily becoming their prey. The key to this interaction as manipulation, a spectrum of behaviors that the empath is highly susceptible to. Because the empath naturally seeks connection with others and therefore tends to put faith in the emotional honesty of others, they can easily become the victim of emotional liars who can deceive others about their feelings or even their identities.
 


 
The narcissist is a master of deception. As the reader will learn in later chapters, the narcissist begins their relationship with empaths and other sensitive people by first constructing an idealized image of themselves that the empath buys into. The narcissist will bombard the empath with words and displays of love and esteem, which leads the empath to establish rapport with the narcissist and to trust them. Basically, the narcissist invents an idealized version of themselves that the empath will return to when the narcissist reveals that they are actually quite different.
 


 
The empath thus falls victim to their own abilities, particularly their knack for quickly connecting with others on an emotional level. Because the narcissist is such a good liar, the empath does not realize that they have been misled about the emotional state and intentions of the narcissist. The narcissist does not love the empath. The narcissist frequently is incapable of loving anyone. This is partly because the narcissist does not see others as equals, but it is also because the narcissist does not love themselves. As we shall see when we discuss codependency, the narcissist actually lacks self-esteem subconsciously and requires the admiration that can only come from others.
 


 
 
 


 
Defining Empathy and Emotional Intelligence
 


 
Empathy is the capacity to feel the subjective emotions and experiences of other people. Empathy is often confused with sympathy, though there are notable differences between the two. Sympathy is the ability to understand others and feel compassion and tolerance for others. Although empathetic people show sympathy, empathy itself is distinct as it involves actually feeling others' emotions and experiences rather than merely understanding them and having compassion for them. An empathetic person actually shares the emotions of another, forming an emotional connection that science is still in the process of trying to understand.
 


 
People that have empathy are referred to as empathetic. Human beings as a species show the capacity for empathy although it is clear that not all people have this quality. Indeed, we have mentioned in passing that people with less developed frontal cortexes have problems in areas like feeling empathy and impulse control. Empaths naturally have empathy, although when this term is used, it generally refers to something specific.
 


 
We can think of empaths as people have a powerful ability to quickly experience the subjective feelings of others. Empaths deeply feel the emotions and experiences of others, even to the point of being incapacitated. If someone in the room is sad, the empath will feel this sadness and may be unable to stop crying. Also, empaths may feel the anger of others, which may cause them to feel fear or anger themselves. Empaths are not able to control their ability to sense others’ emotional states. It is almost as if the empath possesses a special radio that forces them to always be attuned to the frequencies that others send.
 


 
Empathy is a component of emotional intelligence, and empaths are generally regarded as being skilled in this type of ability. Emotional intelligence is a subject that has been the target of much attention lately, particularly as social science attempts to learn more about a subject that previously was accepted at face value. Intelligence was long thought of as cognitive ability: the capacity to perform mathematical calculations and think empirically. Research in the second half of the twentieth century was helpful in revealing that humans possess other forms of intelligence, including emotional intelligence, and that these were just as important evolutionarily as cognitive ability.
 


 
Indeed, some have argued that emotional intelligence is more important to survival than pure cognition. Emotional intelligence allows people to understand each other using emotions and to use emotions as a guide for their actions. This is critical in helping human beings understand love, danger, and other situations that are an essential part of building complex societies and surviving in them.
 


 
So what is emotional intelligence? Emotional intelligence is the ability of human beings to have emotions and to use emotions as a guide for their behavior. We can think of emotional intelligence as a spectrum of abilities of which empathy is one. Indeed, one of the more popular models of emotional intelligence is the mixed model developed by Daniel Goleman, and in this model, empathy is one of the five abilities that comprise emotional intelligence. These abilities include the following:
 




 
Self-awareness
 


 
Self-regulation
 


 
Social skills
 


 
Empathy
 


 
Motivation
 




 
Awareness is key in emotional intelligence, and self-awareness specifically involves the ability to be aware of one’s own emotional state. Although many people see this type of awareness as essential to connecting with others, awareness in emotions also means recognizing the emotional states of others, which is a critical part of empathy. Although emotional self-awareness is important, men and women need to be able to understand when their emotions are dysfunctional or socially inappropriate. This is when self-regulation comes in: the ability to halt or modify one’s emotional state based on suitability in that moment or situation.
 


 
It, therefore, becomes obvious that emotional intelligence is not merely a matter of being emotionally aware and acting accordingly. If someone feels anger or rage (or any other emotion for that matter), they need to recognize when it might be necessary to modify that emotion to fit their needs at that moment. Someone who is not able to do this effectively is not showing true emotional intelligence, no matter how self-aware they are.
 


 
Individuals with emotional intelligence use their emotional awareness in their interactions with others. This is part of the reason why emotional intelligence has been shown to be important in leadership roles. Leaders who are not emotionally intelligent are not closely attuned to the needs and cares of their staff, and their staff is conscious of this. By developing emotional intelligence, leaders are able to connect with their staff in powerful ways, which includes showing that they are cognizant of their concerns and care about them.
 


 
So, what does emotional intelligence have to do with the empath discussion? As the reader can see, empathy is one of the skills that comprise emotional intelligence. Empaths generally possess high emotional intelligence, although they can occasionally have problems in certain areas. Highly sensitive people, in general, can have issues when it comes to the realm of self-regulation, which involves modifying your emotional state when necessary. Empaths have a tendency to act on their emotions or to form emotional connections quickly. The step of emotion modification is often neglected because of the strong emotional impression that the empath receives from others. What this means from a practical standpoint is that the empath may have to work towards emotional self-regulation both as a way of defending themselves from narcissists and self-healing. Self-regulation is important in healing from narcissism as it allows the empath to be grounded in the present and to put to the side those emotions that can cause them to be vulnerable to manipulation.
 


 
 
 


 
Benefits and Dangers of Empathic Power
 


 
There is, therefore, a slew of dangers associated with empathic power, but we will begin with the benefits. The benefits of empathic power overlap somewhat with the benefits of emotional intelligence in general because empathy is such a key component of this type of intelligence. Some benefits of empathic power include (1) better intimate and familial relationships with others, (2) better social relations for children and adults, (3) a tendency to be rated more positively by other people, (4) the ability to read the emotions of others quickly, (5) improved social dynamics in the workplace, (6) better self-compassion and self-actualization, (7) improved psychological wellbeing and quality of life.
 


 
In fact, it is difficult to state all of the benefits of empathic power as it pervades much of human interaction. When a person senses like or dislike in another person and uses this to improve interactions, they are using empathy. When someone is motivated to help another person because of a perception of emotional need, they are also using empathy. Indeed, we are constantly using empathy as human beings (at least the well-adjusted among us), and the social sciences will be unlikely to ever come up with an accurate measure that captures the importance of this quality.
 


 
If we go from the macro-dynamics of empathy to the micro ones, the empath will have better interactions with other people because of their ability. They will be able to sense aspects of the other person that someone who is not empathic will not be able to do. They will be considerate of their needs and will be able to modify their actions to the mutual benefit of both people. Also, because human beings are wired to form emotional connections with others, the empath will also form long-lasting bonds with other people because of their better perception of emotional states compared to other people.
 


 
But the empath also has some problems to deal with. We have already mentioned that the empath is susceptible to highly manipulative people, like narcissists, Machiavellians, and sociopaths (or psychopaths). This vulnerability stems from a heightened awareness of others and a tendency to follow instinct or impulse. Also, empaths have problems with narcissists in particular because they may be more suggestible than others. Because empaths are highly emotionally aware and are used to using their emotions as a guide, someone who is ill-meaning can tap into this tendency and use the emotions of the empath against them. So, for example, the narcissist can use the empath’s emotions to turn them against someone the narcissist dislikes, just as the narcissist can turn others against the empath when the time is right.
 


 
Another important danger of empathic power is their inability to turn it off. Although we think of empathy as being a good thing that brings us as human beings closer together, the empath can be weakened by the constant barrage of emotions they are subject to. The empath can feel overwhelming and incapacitating sadness in a room full of depressed people. Or they can feel great agitation in a room full of angry or enraged persons. The empath does not build a wall to keep the emotions of others out, so they can be drained by the emotional states of others, so much so that they are weakened.
 


 
There are particular codependency concerns of the empaths, concerns that will be explored in more detail in a later chapter. The empath sometimes looks to others to meet their emotional needs, which can lead to their supporting the mental illness or addiction of a partner. This, in essence, is codependency. An important subject of this book is empath healing from narcissistic abuse and codependency. The empath is capable of learning skills that help them manage their propensities. This will serve to protect them from narcissists and increase their confidence and self-esteem.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 2: What is a Narcissist?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Images of the narcissist abound in fiction and film. Oscar Wilde explored the pitfalls of narcissism when he wrote his seminal work, 
The Picture of Dorian Gray
. A narcissist thriving in a narcissistic society is the subject of an important work written in France shortly before the French Revolution: 
Les Liaisons Dangereuses
 (translated in English as Dangerous Liaisons). We see narcissists in films like 
Malice
, 
Basic Instinct
, and 
Young Adult
 starring Charlize Theron.
 


 
Aside from representing ways in which Western society has integrated narcissism into various media, these depictions of narcissism and narcissists serve as examples to empaths and other emotionally sensitive people. The empath can look at these examples and say: “Yes, my significant other is, in fact, a narcissist too.” Or. “My significant other has hurt me in much the same way the narcissist in this book hurt other characters.”
 


 
Naturally, we cannot use representations of narcissistic characters in media as a guide in diagnosing this personality disorder, but they do serve an important role. In fact, the first step in approaching the narcissist is recognizing that they suffer from a personality disorder. This means that they exhibit a constellation of traits and behaviors that generally represent an abnormal development, and they also generally lack insight into their condition. The narcissist does not understand that they are not superior and, therefore, are not entitled to special treatment from others. They also do not have the right to abuse others.
 


 
The key component of narcissism is vanity, a fact that the Ancient Greeks recognized. The term narcissism originates from a character of Greek legend. Narcissus was a beautiful youth who enthralled all those whom he encountered. Sometimes described as a hunter, Narcissus cruelly spurned those who showed an interest in him because of his vanity. For his cruelty, Narcissus was punished by the goddess Nemesis, the Greek goddess of vengeance, by being lured into falling in love with his own image in a pool of water. After a time, Narcissus withered away and was turned into a flower.
 


 
Vanity is central to the Narcissus myth, and it is also related to the traits that we see in narcissistic personality disorder. Anyone who has encountered the narcissist can relate how superior, entitled, self-obsessed, and abusive they are. Indeed, one of the unique characteristics of the narcissist is that they lack insight about their abusive nature, even lacking understanding that how they behave can be deemed abusive.
 


 
Narcissistic abuse refers to a wide variety of behaviors that stem from how the narcissist views themselves and the world around them. The term narcissistic abuse was actually coined to describe the manner in which narcissistic parents engaged in the form of emotional abuse with their children. Although narcissists typically abuse those close to them, like a close family member or romantic partner, the narcissist can actually abuse anyone, such as a colleague at work or a classmate in school.
 


 
Indeed, the wide reach of the narcissist often prevents these individuals from being accurately labeled. We do not always expect narcissists to lash out against people that they are not particularly close to in large social groupings like work or school, but they frequently do this, particularly the vindictive narcissist who can lash out in rage for little or no reason. A frequent tactic of the narcissist is to isolate their victim by turning others against them. This can happen against victims at work, at school, or in the community, or it can happen in the context of a close personal relationship. Indeed, isolation in personal relationships can be particularly damaging as it places the victim in a position of dependency on the narcissist, who is bent on harming them.
 


 
The narcissist does not truly understand how harmful they are to others. They believe deeply that they are superior to others and that the needs of others are, therefore, irrelevant. Because of their sense of superiority, the narcissist will belittle, demean, and bully others without thinking. Although the narcissist understands other people well enough to know how to modify this behavior, when the narcissist is their true self, they will engage in highly abusive language and behaviors, which reveals the true feelings of the narcissist.
 


 
As we will see later, empaths and other sensitive people often do not realize that they are being abused because of the generally positive perception they have of the narcissist. In the early phases of the relationship, the narcissist can shower the empath with words of love, which give the empath the impression that the narcissist is kind, considerate, and truly loves them. The empath forms an attachment to this person and therefore becomes a willing victim to their manipulation and abuse.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic Personality Disorder
 


 
Men and women with narcissistic personality disorder, or NPD, bear some similarities to people with other personality disorders while still representing an entity onto themselves. Narcissistic people have traits consistent with vanity while having a host of other behaviors that suggest some of the underlying characteristics of the narcissist. As with other personality disorders, men and women with NPD require a pervasive and enduring history of displaying these characteristics. This stipulation allows the psychologist or medical professional to exclude episodic behaviors from the diagnosis.
 


 
Indeed, narcissistic traits lend themselves to episodes of this type of behavior. As we will see in the next section, it can be argued that animals are naturally narcissistic, with narcissism here, meaning a tendency towards acting in a self-interested fashion (and recognizing that narcissism is much more than this). It has also been argued in psychoanalysis that narcissism is normal in certain situations and at particular times of life.
 


 
But narcissistic personality disorder represents an enduring pattern of dysfunctional behaviors. The narcissist is a difficult patient for the psychiatrist, psychologist, or other clinician, and why this is will become clear as we explore the criteria needed to make a diagnosis of this disorder. The symptoms of narcissistic personality disorder required to make a diagnosis include the following:
 




 
Grandiosity in conjunction with the expectation of special treatment by other people
 


 
A self-concept of uniqueness, superiority, and high status
 


 
A sense of entitlement, which causes the narcissist to expect submission from other people
 


 
A need for admiration from others
 


 
Delusions of special intelligence, power, success, and physical attractiveness
 


 
A tendency to manipulate others for reasons of personal gain
 


 
A feeling of envy others combined with the belief that others are envious of them
 


 
A reluctance or inability to feel empathy for other people
 


 
A propensity towards demeaning, belittling, and bullying other people
 




 
The diagnosis of NPD is made using the above criteria from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual. This particular diagnosis is grouped with several others (called Cluster B disorders). The Cluster B disorders, all personality disorders, are similar in some of the ways the disorders manifest, although the narcissist stands out because of their manipulation and the harm they do to others. The other personality disorders in the Cluster B group are borderline personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, and antisocial personality disorder.
 


 
Borderline patients are known for their frequent displays of strong emotions (namely, love and hate) and for the emotional confusion that characterizes their condition. Borderline people can be inclined towards self-harm, and they are usually treated with psychotherapy, although medications can also be an important component of their treatment. The histrionic patient is seductive, attention-seeking, and over the top. Contrary to popular belief, men can be histrionic as well as men, although women are four times more likely to be diagnosed with the condition. Like the narcissistic patient, the histrionic person can be egocentric and manipulative, although they are generally regarded as less dangerous than narcissists.
 


 
The person with antisocial personality disorder perhaps represents the condition that best approaches the harm that we imagine when we think of narcissists. The antisocial person is not merely withdrawn or introverted, as some commonly assume. The antisocial client engages in actions that display a lack of regard for society or social norms, and a desire to undermine or attack the social structure. The antisocial person may engage in criminal acts with no foreseeable benefit to themselves. This is an aspect of antisocial personality disorder (and some other conditions) that is often difficult to comprehend, but it is important to recognize it.
 


 
Indeed, there is a fringe area of the psychological science called dark psychology that deals specifically with these conditions of dark motivation. It has been observed that human beings have the capacity to harm others in an outrageous and wanton way. An individual may destroy the reputation of another person with no benefit to themselves, or they may incite harm towards another person for seemingly no reason at all.
 


 
The three or four conditions of dark psychology occasionally referred to as the dark triad, all represent the capacity for human beings to behave with seemingly sinister motivations. When referred to as the dark triad, these conditions are narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy. A fourth condition, sadism, is sometimes added to this list to create a total of four. Machiavellianism describes the characteristics of Niccolo Machiavelli’s prince, who is able to trounce upon the rights of others for reasons of political expediency or personal gain while the psychopath behaves in a wantonly destructive way, much like the antisocial person.
 


 
Sadism takes its name from the Marquis de Sade, a French aristocrat from the period shortly before the French Revolution who was said to enjoy inflicting pain upon others (this stimulated him sexually). Sadism is often not discussed in the context of narcissism because sex with the narcissist is often regarded as little more than a manipulative tool that they use to achieve what they desire from others. Psychoanalytically speaking, the narcissist is believed to direct their sexual urges towards themselves rather than towards others.
 


 
 
 


 
The Development of Narcissism
 


 
Perhaps the most famous psychologist to disgust narcissism and its origins was Sigmund Freud. Freud was an Austrian psychoanalyst who left a large body of work, forming much of the basis of modern-day psychoanalytic theory. Much of our understanding of personality disorders and psychiatric diagnosis, in general, can be laid at the feet of Freud, who used his own experience with his upper-middle-class Viennese clientele to develop his theories.
 


 
Freud, like other psychoanalysts, sought to understand what motivated human behavior. Freud believed that human beings were motivated primary by libido, that is, sex drive. It is not strange that human beings, as animals who have a primary drive towards procreation, would be motivated by libido, but some have argued that Freud focused on the importance of this type of drive because of his own abnormal development and the primary role that sexuality and sexual interest played in it.
 


 
Whether you agree with Freud or not, one must acknowledge the pivotal role that his theories have had on how we approach and understand psychoanalytic diagnosis today. Narcissism, in particular, was an area that Freud had much to say about. While many of his theories on other areas have few adherents today, Freudian theory on narcissism remains of central influence in this particular realm of psychology.
 


 
Freud believed that narcissism stemmed from misplaced libido. In the case of the narcissist, libido, or sex drive, was directed inwardly toward the narcissist himself or herself rather than outward at other people. In fact, Freudian theory seems to jibe with the way that the Greeks themselves perceived this characteristic of people. Narcissus, the handsome youth, was punished for being more interested in himself than in others. Freud would say that his sex drive should have been directed at Echo, the maiden who loved him, and not at his own reflection as he saw it in the pool.
 


 
So, Freud accepted that narcissism was generally pathological, an observation that he was able to make from his large clientele of patients who often had clear issues of sexual frustration and misdirected sexual energy. But Freud also postulated that narcissism could be normal in certain situations. Narcissism, though it could lead to problematic behaviors, could be thought of as an extreme form of self-obsession, and we understand today, this type of self-obsession is adaptive.
 


 
An example of normal narcissism is the sort of sentimental investment that parents display towards their young children. A parent sees the child not as a unique individual with an independent identity, but as an extension of themselves. It is characteristic of narcissistic thinking that the narcissist sees only their own self as existing in the world, with all other people being extensions of their own will. This type of narcissistic idea will become clearer when we talk about infantile narcissism in a moment, but the sort of narcissism that Freud observed in adults and believed to be normal was related though it occurred later.
 


 
A parent that sees a child as an extension of themselves is motivated to protect the child and promote their development because they see the child as a part of themselves. This actually enhances the survival of the child (and the species) by motivating parents to labor for the benefit of their offspring, who are infamously needy in the first two or three years of life. If parents were not narcissistic, they might be more equivocal in their treatment of their children, which may lead to reduced rates of survival for said children. Narcissistic behavior of parents towards children causes them to see aiding their children as aiding and promoting themselves, which is normal behavior for the narcissist.
 


 
This type of narcissistic behavior of parents towards young children should not be conflated with the mental abuse that parents with narcissistic personality disorder display towards their children of all ages. This normal, episodic narcissism in adults is not part of a personality disorder, but a supposedly healthy way in which parents connect with their children.
 


 
The other instance of narcissistic behavior that Freud regarded as normal and adaptive was that of so-called primary infantile narcissism or normal infantile narcissism. This is the sort of self-interested behavior that was observed in very young children. Children in the infant and toddler stage will cry or throw a tantrum when they want something from their parent or caregiver or if they are angry that they are not being given the attention they want. The child sees others in their environment as extensions of their own will and use crying or tantrum-throwing as a way of indicating to these others that they want this or that need met.
 


 
This particular narcissistic behavior, a normal one, is important to discuss because we see similarities in the way that adults with narcissistic personality disorder behave. The adult narcissist also sees others around him or her as tools to be bent towards their own needs and not as men and women with unique identities and needs of their own. The adult, pathological narcissist is, therefore, not unlike the child narcissist who cries for the parent.
 


 
But the narcissism of the child serves an important function, according to Freud. The child is motivated to promote its own survival. It cries because it needs food, it needs to be changed, it needs to be held, or it just wants attention from the parent. This narcissism in the child is a normal stage in its development. Indeed, parents who do not fill their own role adequately in this interchange disturb the development of the child, producing children that are insecurely attached to the parent and have problems with relationships later on.
 


 
Freud was not the only psychoanalyst to make observations and form theories about narcissistic behavior. Alfred Adler was a student of Freud who diverged from his teacher somewhat. Adler believed that human beings were motivated by purposive drives, that is independent goals to accomplish this or that, rather than drives of a sexual or aggressive nature.
 


 
Later psychoanalysts incorporated the beliefs of Freud and Adler to come up with theories that covered most types of narcissism. Otto Kernberg was one of these psychoanalysts, proposing that narcissism be divided into three major types, with subtypes as needed. The three primary types of narcissism that Kernberg identified included:
 




 
Normal adult narcissism
 


 
Normal infantile narcissism
 


 
Pathological narcissism
 




 
Normal adult narcissism and normal infantile narcissism were essentially the instances of these behaviors that Freud believed to be normal. So Kernberg and Freud had a meeting of the minds here. Kernberg also agreed with Freud when it came to pathological narcissism, the behavior that people with narcissistic personality disorder display. He saw this type of narcissism is resulting from misdirected libidinous energy, just like Freud did. Kernberg also believed that narcissists were motivated to some degree by aggression, a belief that Freud held, too.
 


 
But Kernberg went further in his categorization of pathological narcissism. He believed that narcissistic personality disorder was just one of three types of pathological narcissism. The three types of pathological narcissism recognized by Otto Kernberg were:
 




 
Narcissistic personality disorder
 


 
Regression to infantile-type self-esteem
 


 
Narcissistic choice of object
 




 
Of these, Kernberg believed that NPD was the most severe, representing a pattern of behaviors that were highly dysfunctional and damaging to those around the narcissist. Another psychiatrist named Heinz Kohut diverged somewhat from Kernberg's theory. Kohut saw NPD and infantile narcissism as overlapping. For Kohut, the adult with NPD suffered from an infantile narcissism that had persisted into adulthood. These individuals did not grow out of their childhood egotism as most people do. Their childish self-centeredness, therefore, persists, becoming complicated with issues of vanity and libido.
 


 
 
 


 
Why Empaths Are the Favorite Targets of the Narcissist
 


 
The adult narcissist, according to Kohut, has an archaic self that still has the sort of wants, objectives, and needs that were characteristic of childhood. These things have persisted because they were not satisfied during the childhood years. The archaic self is called this because it represents both a primitive self-concept as well as an infantile one. As we hinted at earlier, it can be said that animals are naturally narcissistic, but as humans, we are capable of overcoming that narcissism, clearly, as we are capable of forming complex societies and civilizations. Other animals, in fact, are able to form complex social networks that can be said to represent behavior patterns that are not narcissistic in nature.
 


 
The narcissist, therefore, has a type of self-concept that sees others as objects to advance their will. The empath becomes the target of the narcissist because of their emotional sensitivity and codependency issues. Codependency, which will be described further in the later chapter, is a condition in which one person enables the mental illness, addiction, or dysfunction of another person. The empath is the primary codependent individual in the narcissistic relationship, but as we will see later, the narcissist, too, is codependent, using the empath to fill their own need for admiration and approval.
 


 
What is interesting about the narcissist is that, though they are a compendium of archaic and false motivations, they play an active role in the manipulation game that they engage others in. In other words, the narcissist may be vain because they possess an archaic, disordered self where they are at the center of the world, but they also actively recruit empaths and other sensitive people to enable their narcissism and to abuse.
 


 
The narcissist knows at a certain level that their identity is false. The narcissist is superior and entitled, but there is a part of them that is envious of others, deeply needs admiration from others, and scared of being exposed. Indeed, the narcissist can react in a narcissistic rage episode if another person forces them to recognize their true self. When someone implies that a narcissist is not superior or, even worse, that they may be lacking in certain areas compared to others, the narcissist's archaic self becomes exposed as false, a reveal that the narcissist cannot accept.
 


 
The empath is the perfect target of the narcissist because their emotional sensitivity makes them particularly susceptible to the emotional manipulation techniques the narcissist uses. The narcissist engages in idealization early on in their relationships, a behavior that involves the creation of an idealized version of themselves that the empath becomes attached to and invested in. Because the empath seeks emotional connections with others, they are susceptible to this deception even though it is just that: deception. The empath also seeks approval from the narcissist as part of their codependency, which becomes evident in later stages. As the narcissist becomes abusive in the devaluation and discard phases of the relationship, the empath continues to be attached to narcissist rather than leaving this destructive union as most individuals who are not empathic or codependent would do.
 


 
Another aspect of empaths that renders them susceptible to narcissists is their tendency to align emotionally with others. Part of empathy involves emotional alignment for the end goal of group unity and synchronicity. The narcissist, therefore, is able to manipulate such people into thinking and behaving in alignment with them more effectively than they would be able to do to non-empaths. Someone who is not an empath may be more apt to disagree or challenge a narcissist than an empath would. The narcissist knows this because they are experts at reading people, instantly getting a sense of their emotional character and vulnerabilities. Part of breaking free and healing from narcissism is developing a level of self-esteem that permits a type of autonomy that is not necessarily native in empaths.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 















 


 
Chapter 3: Are You an Empath?
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Most women and men who are empaths do not know it. Some may have noticed that they are highly sensitive to how others feel, feeling the emotions of other people directly. Others may notice that they are introverts who are easily overwhelmed by being in large crowds or avoid overbearing or loud people. Some may feel closely attuned to nature or are highly perceptive to times of year. These are all traits of empaths, a subject that will be explored in more detail in this chapter.
 


 
 
 


 
Types of Empaths
 


 
Empaths can be classified into types based on their tendencies and abilities. Classifying this condition into types allows the empath to understand what they experience by putting a name to it. Yes, it may seem strange to refer to empathy as a “condition,” but empaths can be weighed down by their gifts and experience exhaustion, confusion, or the sensation of an emotional whirlwind. Below we have listed the main types of empaths to help those who may believe they are an empath understand their talents. The types of empaths include the following:
 




 
Claircognizant empath: the ability to know or predict things without an explanation (this type of empath is intuitive and sensitive to liars)
 


 
Emotionally receptive empath: this common type of empath instantly feels the subjective emotional states of other people
 


 
Fauna empath: this type of empath has the ability to feel, hear, and form connections with animals
 


 
Flora empath: this type of empath has the ability to feel, hear, and form connections with plants
 


 
Geomantic empath: this type of empath is attuned to the energy sent by the earth, even to the extent that they can predict natural disasters like hurricanes or earthquakes
 


 
Medium empath: this type of empath has the ability to feel, hear, and form connections with deceased people
 


 
Physically receptive empath: this type of empath is sensitive to the physical pains and body complaints of other people, which they can feel in their own body
 


 
Precognitive empath: this type of empath feels events before they actually happen, such as seeing events in dreams or as physical sensations shortly before the event
 


 
Psychometric empath: this type of empath receives information and energy from inanimate objects like jewelry, clothing, furniture, and photographs
 


 
Telepathic empath: this type of empath is able to accurately read the thoughts of others
 




 
To the logic-minded person, many of these types of empaths may seem to possess abilities out of a science fiction show. But to the person who actually experiences these sensations, they are very real. Indeed, these abilities may be entering the realm of science. Many important minds in science, like Stephen Hawking, have emphasized the importance of the emerging field of epigenetics. Epigenetics has to do with abilities that human beings possess that are not actually being expressed because the genes are dormant or unused. Empaths may be expressing human abilities that other humans do not, and they do this in dramatic ways. So being an empath, though rare and powerful, may not be so hokey after all.
 


 
 
 


 
Traits of Empaths
 


 
A review of the types of empaths does give the reader a sense of some of the traits that empaths possess. In this chapter, we think of traits of the empath as being tendencies that empaths have in terms of their daily lives and interactions with others rather than specific “powers.” We all know that empaths are sensitive people, but that sensitivity manifests in various ways. Here, those women and men questioning if they may be an empath can develop a better sense of their truth by comparing these qualities to those that they possess. These traits also will give the reader a sense of how the empath can fall victim to the narcissist, which is itself a trait.
 


 
Feeling the Emotions of Others
 


 
The trademark ability of the empath is their capacity to feel the emotions of others. Empaths do not merely possess sympathy, that is, the ability to feel compassion and tolerance for others, but they experience the subjective emotional states and experiences of others. They share the emotions of others almost as soon as they occur. This fascinating ability helps to influence the other abilities of the empath though it can also be problematic (as you will see shortly).
 


 
Others Describe You as Highly-Sensitive
 


 
The empath is not able to control their sensitivity to the things around them. In addition to their sensitivity to people, the empath may also experience sensitivity to 
things
. They feel physical pain or sadness when they watch a sad or moving film. They may become enveloped in tears. For this reason and others, the empath is described as highly-sensitive by others (which they are).
 


 
 
 


 
You Are Overwhelmed by Negativity
 


 
Because the empath feels things almost instantaneously, they can be overwhelmed when they are surrounded by negative. It can be difficult for the empath to be around one negative or depressive person, but being in a group of such people can be deadening for them. This ability to be overwhelmed by a perception of emotion can cause the empath to avoid certain situations or people.
 


 
Introverted
 


 
Although the empath naturally forms connections with other people and generally derives pleasure from doing so, the empath does tend to be an introvert. Although some think of introverts as “loner types,” they are actually sensitive people who are on a sort of psychic-emotional journey. One therapist has described introverts as people who have extremely active brains that are weighed down by thoughts.
 


 
Strong Intuitive Sense
 


 
The empath is strongly intuitive. The empath will have a “sense” about people, places, and things that guides their actions and interactions. The empath may be able to tell when another person is lying, whether another person is dangerous or a good person, or whether they should avoid certain places. These intuitive perceptions also serve to heighten the introverted nature of the empath.
 


 
Low Pain Tolerance
 


 
The empath is sensitive in general, and this includes being sensitive to pain. Physical sensations that are mild or tolerable to others may be completely intolerable to the empath. Pain is one of those sensations that can be difficult. Pain is intensified in the empath because of their tendency to feel things with their entire body. Pain, therefore, becomes a sensation that is not localized to its source but is felt throughout the physical form of the empath.
 


 
Difficulty with Images of Pain or Horror Movies
 


 
Empaths will tend to avoid images of pain or violence because of their sensitivity. Recall that an empath feels the subjective states of others, and that can even include characters that they see on a television screen or in a movie theater. Even images of war in a magazine can trigger an empath. Such sensations can be isolating to an empath as the world can be filled with rough images though the empath often learns to manage them.
 


 
Attuned to Your Own Body
 


 
Because the empath has a high-powered antenna, they tend to be closely attuned to how their body feels. This means that physical symptoms can be intensified in the empath, or have psychic or psychological implications that are not present in other people.
 


 
You Feel the Ailments of Others
 


 
When someone is dealing with an illness, the empath can feel it. Even an empath sitting in the waiting room of a doctor’s office can find themselves feeling this person’s complaint at one moment and then another person’s shortly after. They can feel stomach pains if someone in the waiting room has a stomach complaint or joint pains if someone has arthritis. The complaint can take many forms.
 


 
Attuned to Other’s Dishonesty
 


 
Empaths might want to consider seeking employment with law enforcement or the Federal Bureau of Investigation because they are closely attuned to the truthfulness of others. This is an interesting talent that perhaps has to do with the ability of the empath to be sensitive to the many cues that others send. This trait can also represent a type of extra-sensory perception that is not well understood.
 


 
 
 


 
You Are Weighed Down by the Problems of Others
 


 
This is a two-part trait of empaths. On the one hand, the empath can be overwhelmed by the problems of others because they sense everything, but they also tend to be bombarded by others with their problems. Indeed, even though the empath may not be conscious of some of their abilities others frequently are. The sensitive nature of the empath can be easily recognizable and lead to others laying their problems at the feet of a sensitive soul.
 


 
You Enjoy Being Around Nature
 


 
In some ways, the empath represents almost an idealized version of a human being. They are not only attuned to the concerns of others, but they are closely connected with nature. This trait consists of the enjoyment they derive from being around nature, which can replenish their spirit, but it also is a sensitivity to the power of Earth. Because they enjoy nature, the empath often cares about the environment and endeavors to sustain it.
 


 
You Prefer Doing Things One at a Time
 


 
We have mentioned it before. The empath can be easily overwhelmed. This is not because they are basket cases who are easily overwhelmed by things and cannot make decisions, but because they are constantly receiving sensory information from the people and things around them. The empath is also a thinker who can see shades of things others do not. For these reasons and more, the empath generally prefers dealing with things one at a time.
 


 
You Avoid Overly Stimulating Situations
 


 
Related to the previous trait, is the tendency for the empath to avoid overly stimulating situations. A crowded dinner party or a loud rave at a club can be too much for the empath. As we mentioned before, the empath is constantly receiving and processing sensory stimuli, so it is not difficult to imagine that in certain settings, there would simply be too many stimuli to process while still maintaining one’s sanity.
 


 
Perceptive of Noises and Movements
 


 
The empath is sensitive to sound and movement. The empath may hear footsteps and be able to tell who they belong to or where they are coming from. The empath also will be sensitive to the movements of others, which can join with other traits of the empath – like a sensitivity to pain or agitation – to make them jittery or scared in certain situations, such as a person moving loudly or suddenly while the empath is receiving a fear stimulus from someone else.
 


 
Tendency to Daydream or Get Bored Easily
 


 
Although it may seem strange that someone who is constantly being stimulated would be easily bored, it makes sense when we keep in mind how active the empath’s mind is. The empath is constantly turning things over in their mind quickly, going from one thing or stimulus to the next. This tendency can lead to daydreaming in the stimulus, both because they are mulling over something or because they are not being stimulated by their present situation.
 


 
You Are a Listener
 


 
The empath is an active listener. The empath listens to others avidly because they value the contributions that others have to make and how they feel. In this trait, the empath stands in sharp juxtaposition with the narcissist. The narcissist may pretend to listen, but this is generally just a gesture. In reality, the narcissist does not care deeply enough about others to really listen, at least not in an empathic way. When the narcissist listens to another person, it is often to obtain information that they file away and later use against that person. The empath, however, sees stimuli from the ears as a way of connecting with people, causing them to enjoy listening to people.
 


 
Highly Perceptive of Time
 


 
No one is as sensitive to their environments as the empath. This type of person is not only sensitive to people and places, but to time itself. The empath may be good at guessing the time of day or even the day of the week without the need for other cues. They are highly attuned also to the time of year, feeling the replenishment that comes with spring and the languor or even sadness that comes in fall or winter. This trait is an extension of a general sensitivity to the earth but also represents how the empath is perceptive of and responsive to a wide variety of cues.
 


 
Don’t Work Well with Selfish People
 


 
The empath is highly considerate of other people. Indeed, the empath is so strong in this regard that it may be difficult or impossible for them to work with people that do not share this quality. Indeed, though the empath may be a generally caring and considerate person, there may be a streak of intolerance in their personality. They are intolerant of overbearing, selfish, or insensitive people. They do not work well with these types and may engage in avoiding them.
 


 
Highly Creative
 


 
Because the empath is sensitive to a wide variety of cues, they are generally creative types. They experience the cues of nature and notice all the shades and sounds around them. The empath is also an active thinker so this sensitivity combined with great thinking capacity tends to make them quite creative. This creativity can manifest in the creation of art or in pondering existential concerns.
 


 
You Experience Fatigue of Unknown Cause
 


 
Feeling everything can be draining. It goes without saying that someone who is constantly receiving emotional and physical cues from people, places, and things can find themselves dealing with exhaustion. If we can find listening to certain people exhausting, imagine how it must be like to feel the subjective states of several people at once (while watching a movie or being in a crowded place). The empath, therefore, can experience fatigue, and it is because of all that’s stimulating them in their environments.
 


 
You Attract Narcissistic Types
 


 
One of the most interesting traits of the empath is that they can attract the narcissists of the world. Indeed, the empath not only attracts them but is liable to fall victim to their techniques and machinations. One would imagine that a person as sensitive as an empath would detect the falseness of the narcissist and be repulsed by it, but because the narcissist’s lie is one that the narcissist themselves believes, the empath gets drawn in.
 


 
It really is a fascinating situation. The narcissist’s superior and entitled identity is a lie that the narcissist does not know is false (though deep down they generally know). Also, the narcissist is so emotionally manipulative that the empath often does not have the defenses to resist them. For example, the narcissist is good at winning others with false signs of affection and closeness. Because the empath seeks closeness with others and is perceptive of these attempts to establish rapport, they naturally fall victim to the sorts of tactics the narcissist uses. Also, the narcissus is themselves perceptive of the sensitive nature of the empath and sees someone that they will be able to abuse in a codependent relationship.
 


 
Embracing Your Empathic Gift
 


 
One of the ideas that should be clear from this chapter is that being an empath is truly a gift, but it is one that brings with it some drawbacks. A highly-sensitive person, especially one as perceptive and sensitive as the empath, will be weighed down by the feelings and experiences of others. The empath is also easy prey for those who use emotions to deceptively establish rapport and manipulate others.
 


 
But one thing that should also be taken away from this chapter is that the empath is a special person who should embrace their gifts. The empath can experience all the power and force that the earth has to offer. The polar opposite of the empath is the person who is totally insensitive to others and to the environment around them. Though this may make like easier in some regard, it also makes life less full. The empath is able to see the world and experience it through a special lens. Though the empath must learn to protect themselves from those who target them, they can also embrace their gift. They embrace it by recognizing their many talents, practicing them, and strengthening them.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 4: The Narcissistic Relationship
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The type of relationship that narcissistic men and women form with romantic partners, family members, and friends is known as the narcissistic relationship. Much of early writing on these types of relationships focused on narcissistic parents and their interactions with their children, but today we tend to think of the narcissistic relationship as romantic in nature because of the closeness of romantic partners and the capacity for such partners to be abusive. In reality, any relationship a narcissist can form with others can be called a narcissistic relationship if it has certain features.
 


 
In this chapter, we explore the characteristics of this narcissistic relationship. Most of these characteristics should not come as a surprise as we have already developed an understanding of these types of people. As we have seen, they are vain, entitled, superior, lack empathy, and have a tendency to bully and demean others. One area that we have not addressed in much detail (at least not yet) is the tendency to emotionally manipulate others. Indeed, this last characteristic of the narcissist is an important part of the explorations in this chapter as it underlies the phases of the narcissistic relationship.
 


 
 
 


 
Phases of the Narcissistic Relationship
 


 
The narcissistic relationship is divided into phases based on patterns of behavior the narcissist displays at different times. It is indeed fascinating that in spite of the many narcissists there are in the world and the many types of relationships they can form, narcissists still behave in a stereotypical enough manner that we can talk about phases of relationships and be pretty accurate. The phases of the narcissistic relationship are as follows:
 




 
Idealization
 


 
Devalue
 


 
Discard
 


 
Destroy
 


 
Hoover
 




 
Many readers who deal with narcissists may recognize the phase that they are in now, something which had hitherto been unknown to them. In fact, the purpose of this discussion is to help the partner of the narcissist recognize the pattern and break it.
 


 
Idealization
 


 
Perhaps the most important phase to recognize is the first one, the idealization phase, because this is the time when the narcissist successfully sinks his or her hooks into you. Indeed, the successful application of narcissistic techniques in this phase causes the abused partner to remain in the relationship even in the context of signs that the narcissist does not value you. The narcissist only values themselves, and they use the partner to enable their distorted sense of superiority (which is part of codependency).
 


 
The idealization phase, the first phase of the relationship, involves the narcissist creating an idealized version of themselves. They will seem perfect at this time. They are sensitive, kind, funny; they have all the qualities that you are looking for in another person. They may seem like the answer to your prayers. In fact, this is all an elaborate deception designed to establish rapport with you and cause you to love them and trust them. They will use the strong bond formed with the empath (or sensitive type) here to abuse and mind control later.
 


 
Devalue
 


 
The devalue phase of the relationship is where the true characteristics of the narcissist begin to appear. Unfortunately, the partner of the narcissist, such as the empath, often does not recognize the signs because of the false image of the narcissist created during the idealize phase. During the devalue phase, the narcissist does just that: they engage in words and deeds that tear down your self-esteem, placing you in a dependent position to the narcissist. The purpose of these behaviors is to make the narcissist feel better about themselves, as they use the subservient position of others to confirm their own uniqueness and superiority. The problem here is that the subordinate partner may believe the implicit and explicit belittling from the narcissist and therefore does not see it for the abuse that it is.
 


 
Discard
 


 
The narcissist does not value others because they have a false or archaic self in which they are special, and others exist merely to meet their needs. Others also serve the role of keeping up their false sense of superiority and being targets of abuse. When the narcissist no longer has a need for the partner or has found a more suitable one, they will discard them. This is the ultimate act of abuse as it makes the other person feel worthless and leaves a void in them. The narcissist placed so much effort in making themselves seem necessary to the other only to toss them to the wayside when they were done. Many times, this is the first clue to the empath that something is not right about the narcissistic partner, although the empath may even defend this action of the narcissist.
 


 
Destroy
 


 
The destroy phase truly represents the dark characteristics of the narcissist. Narcissism is not a member of the dark triad of disorders for nothing. When the narcissist has lured you, broken you down, and then tossed you aside, they still are not done with you. Destroying you is the ultimate feat as it confirms for the narcissist that they truly are superior to you and others. In reality, the narcissist motivation in destroying may be merely to see you suffer. The narcissist may destroy by ruining your reputation, turning your family and friends against you, or engaging in behaviors that jeopardize your livelihood.
 


 
Hoover
 


 
But destroy is not the last phase of the narcissistic relationship. Although the actual relationship is over after the discard phase, we have seen that the narcissist continues their work in the destroy phase, often ruining the life of someone who believed they were close to the narcissist. The narcissist is not done. Not yet. In the hoover phase, the narcissist sticks around in your life so that they can see you suffer. They may even continue to harm you from a distance. The vindictive and destructive qualities of the narcissist know no limit.
 


 
Sometimes the narcissist hoovers for a while and then tries to reestablish the relationship. They may do this because another relationship failed or because their new partner is not as easily abused as you were. The narcissist will often try to reestablish the former relationship and unfortunately, the empath frequently takes the bait.
 


 
 
 


 
Pitfalls of the Narcissistic Relationship
 


 
At this point, it is likely clear to most readers that the narcissistic relationships are a viper pit that should be avoided at all costs. Nothing positive for the empath comes from the narcissistic relationship. Though the narcissist may seem like a loving person who is different from others you have met – indeed, the ideal partner – this is just a lure. The narcissist really is vain, entitled, and abusive. They have lured you only so they can abuse you later in order to confirm their false self, which would otherwise fall apart.
 


 
So, what are the pitfalls of the narcissistic relationship? Some of these have already been discussed. The narcissist uses displays of love and closeness as a form of emotional manipulation. In reality, they do not value you at all. Another pitfall is that the narcissist demeans and belittles the other person in ways that may not be perceptible. The partner of the narcissist may believe the belittling or demeaning comments and, therefore, not recognize it for what it is. Another pitfall of the relationship is that all that occurs during it is merely in preparation of the moment when the narcissist will finally discard and destroy. For this reason, one of the most important things the empath can do is recognize this relationship in its earlier stages and leave before the narcissist can tear them down completely.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 5: The Effects of Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Any abuse inflicted by a narcissist on a victim can be termed narcissistic abuse. This term is generally used to refer to the spectrum of emotional abuse that narcissists engage in. Emotional abuse itself is a loaded term with this type of behavior ranging from belittling and demeaning comments to neglect to self-esteem destruction. All of these behaviors are engaged in by narcissists, and they are particularly damaging to the sensitive character of the empath.
 


 
As we have touched on in previous chapters, the narcissist engages in abuse both consciously and unconsciously. Abuse is unconscious because the narcissist has a personality disorder that causes them to lack empathy, therefore, rendering them unable to feel or even understand the damage that they do to others. The abuse is, however, conscious because the narcissist does deliberately engage in certain abusive behaviors because they want to keep the target in the relationship and because they want to feel better about themselves.
 


 
Indeed, most of narcissistic abuse can be tied to the vanity and entitlement that the narcissist feels. But the vanity of the narcissist rests on insecure supports. Subconsciously, the narcissist understands that the identity they possess is false. Perhaps this is some psychoanalysts disagree with the notion that the narcissist possesses an infantile, archaic self as children do. Small children do not understand that there are others in the world who have identities equal to their own, but adults do.
 


 
Even though we often say that the narcissist does not recognize the selves of others, certain behaviors of theirs, including the abusive ones, seem to suggest that they do. For example, the narcissist, like other manipulators, closely observes the mannerisms of others to get a sense of what gesture means what. The end goal, of course, is to use this information against that person later on. If the narcissist truly had an archaic self, the gestures of others would generally be irrelevant, especially to the extent that they were not immediately tied to meeting the needs of the narcissist.
 


 
The child, too, is able to read and understand the gestures of adults, particularly their primary caregiver, but they do this to gauge whether the adult is meeting their need. For example, a child will notice that when it cries, an adult will pick it up and comfort it. If the adult does not comfort it and turns away, the child notices this too. The child also notices whether the adult interprets when it needs food or when it needs to be changed. But the small child notices these things because they are directly tied to needs that it wants to be met.
 


 
As we will see in this chapter, the narcissist engages in abusive behaviors that have nothing to do with meeting its needs as part of an archaic self. Focusing on the abuse side of narcissism seems to support the notion that the pathological narcissist has a regressed self, or engages in this type of selfish behavior for other reasons.
 


 
Indeed, before we delve more deeply into the effects of emotional abuse, it is important to spend a moment addressing some of the tactics that the narcissist uses. Manipulation has been discussed at several junctures previously, but it is important to revisit it here. Manipulation underlies most of the abusive tactics and behaviors of the narcissist since, if there was no manipulation, the target would probably realize that they were being abused and endeavor to protect themselves from the abuse or leave.
 


 
What actually happens is that the victim of the abuse, the empath for example, generally is not cognizant that they are being abused because they may accept the belittling comments about themselves as truth or may interpret the intention of the narcissist. The intention of the narcissist when they dish out demeaning or belittling comments is to lift themselves up and pull you down. They do this because their fragile ego requires constant confirmation that it is superior, and this is what you are there for: to be a constant ego boost for the narcissist by tolerating and accepting their abuse.
 


 
For this reason and others, emotional manipulation is regarded as a particular type of abuse that narcissists engage in. In this chapter, we will deal with three specific types of abuse as part of the general discussion of narcissistic abuse and empaths. Three important types of narcissistic abuse, of particular import to empaths, include the following:
 




 
Emotional manipulation
 


 
Gaslighting
 


 
Mind control
 




 
Emotional manipulation refers to the ability of the narcissist to use emotions to control and wound the target. Recall that in the idealization phase of the relationship, the narcissist constructed an idealized version of themselves and they used this to lure the other person into forming a bond with them. But another important aspect of this phase is that once the narcissist has established an emotional connection with you, in the context of a superior-inferior dynamic, the narcissist is able to control your emotions and use your emotions against you.
 


 
As an empath, you are able to form deep emotional impressions based on the people you meet and the experiences you have. The narcissist knows this. Indeed, this is one of the main reasons why the narcissist chose you to be their unequal partner. The narcissist learns to use your emotions to control you. They will use your emotions to coerce you into doing what they want, and when you fail to do this, they will use your emotions to wound you terribly.
 


 
Gaslighting is an abusive tactic of the narcissists that has garnered some attention in recent years. Gaslighting refers to the ability of the narcissist to cause their target to question their sanity. Although those readers who are unfamiliar with this tactic and this term may be confused at the idea that someone would be capable of doing this to another, the narcissist not only does it but is highly effective at it. The narcissist is good at constructing a false reality using lies and manipulation. The narcissist sometimes enlists others to help them here, and this is particularly effective in gaslighting.
 


 
For example, an employee who has been at a job for a year may notice that one of their coworkers seems obsessed with being better than others and putting others down. Because this employee is good at their job, they attract the attention of this other employee, a vindictive narcissist. This employee starts a rumor that this hardworking young woman has pissed off several clients, and now all of these valued clients hate her. The employee overhears other coworkers of hers talking about this, and she begins to revisit her past actions. She comes to believe that she really has angered these clients. To add insult to injury, this employee frequently finds objects missing or rearranged on her desk, eventually beginning to question whether they were ever there at all or as she remembered them. This is gaslighting, and the narcissist has accomplished it effectively by enlisting others to help.
 


 
Mind control hovers above many of the actions of the narcissist. In fact, the idealized image that is constructed in the early stages of narcissistic relationships is a type of mind control, and it itself leads to further mind control. If the narcissist did not engage in this type of mind control, the empath would see them as they truly are and leave the relationship, saving themselves.
 


 
 
 


 
Emotional Effects of Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
The emotional effects of narcissistic abuse are many and they are traumatic. Some victims of this type of abuse have symptoms that resemble PTSD. The individual can relive their traumatizing encounters and have hypervigilance in settings that should not trigger them. The development of depression, anxiety, and other mental conditions are common effects of narcissistic abuse. Indeed, many empaths are already prone to develop these types of mood disorders, and relationships of this kind only make matters worse. But there are two effects that are particularly damaging, and these the empath needs to pay attention to. These are isolation and disconnection.
 


 
Isolation
 


 
Isolation is one of the more devastating effects of narcissistic abuse. Human beings naturally exist in social groupings in which members form lasting emotional connections with one another. But the narcissist is able to isolate their target, often an empath, preventing them from having any meaningful connections with others. This person may even become isolated from long-standing friends and family, leaving them completely dependent upon the narcissist. This is what the narcissist wants: an isolated victim who they can abuse and who will not leave them. Isolation can lead to severely depressed mood, anxiety, panic attacks, and even suicidal thoughts.
 


 
Disconnection
 


 
Disconnection takes the trauma of isolation one step further. Isolation refers to both the physical and mental sensation of being alone. In disconnection, the target becomes mentally and emotionally disconnected from others and their environment. This is a devastating result as it can lead to physical complaints. Indeed, this state is so abnormal for humans that it leaves people unable to function and may even shorten their lifespan. Isolation and disconnection are particularly problematic in empaths because of their tendency to be codependent. In the next chapter, we will explore further the codependency dynamic and what it means specifically for empaths as they endeavor to save themselves from the toxicity of narcissists.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 6: The Codependent Relationship
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Codependency is a term that is frequently used to describe relationships that are dysfunctional in character though many who use it may not be aware that it refers to a specific type of relationship. Individuals who seem particularly clingy or needy may be described as codependent, or relationships in which both partners engage in behaviors that seem dysfunctional or personality disorder also tend to be described as codependent.
 


 
In short, any relationship that seems off to outsiders, especially those in which the partners seem to have an abnormal closeness, tends to be described as codependent. The truth is, many of these relationships may have some codependency. Indeed, codependent relationships are more common in individuals that have certain personality disorders or people who are highly sensitive, like empaths. That being said, it is generally a good practice to be accurate when using terms like these, so now is a perfect opportunity to understand what this codependency business is all about.
 


 
 
 


 
What Is Codependency?
 


 
There is more to the codependency discussion than most realize. Although codependent relationships appear to be a feature of certain conditions of mental health, some psychologists have questioned whether codependency is not something that social scientists have made up. In particular, it can be argued that some aspects of codependency may be present in otherwise healthy relationships and that it is a modern trend to pathologize behavior patterns that seem to run contrary to modern beliefs about personal independence.
 


 
But when one learns more about the narcissist and comes to understand them, codependency as a behavior pattern becomes something inescapable. The narcissist naturally forms relationships of this type: relationships that are particularly interesting in that both partners seem to have prominent features of this personality type.
 


 
In fact, despite some of the detractors of codependency, some have argued that this condition be given a more formal place in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of psychiatry or the DSM. Before we get into the proposed criteria, let us first present a working definition of codependency. In codependency, one individual enables the mental illness, addiction, or behavioral dysfunction of another person. One of the most significant features is that one person depends on another for their identity and self-esteem.
 


 
As we have hinted at in other parts of this book in the context of the disordered self of the narcissist (and its development), most people go through a developmental process that involves developing a "self" that recognizes the selves of others and relates normally to these. Just as the narcissist has an issue with recognizing the selves of others and seeing them as equivalent to his or her own, so too does the codependent person have an abnormality of the self, but one that lacks independence and therefore needs another self for completion.
 


 
A psychologist named Timmen Cermak actively studied codependent people and developed criteria for what he termed codependent personality disorder. The criteria that Cermak proposed for this disorder include the following:
 




 
Association of one's own self-worth with a need to control others and oneself, or suffer consequences as a result
 


 
Taking on the responsibility of meeting others' needs to the exclusion of one's own needs
 


 
Cognitive distortions centered around separation and anxiety
 


 
Involvement in relationships with people that have personality disorders, behavior problems, conditions of substance abuse, or who are also codependent
 


 
The presence of at least three of the following traits:
 


 
Anxiety
 


 
Depression
 


 
Hypervigilance
 


 
Compulsions
 


 
Excessive denial
 


 
Emotional constrictions
 


 
Medical problems tied to stress
 


 
Prior victim of physical or sexual abuse
 


 
Involved with a substance abuser for at least two years
 




 
 
 


 
The Development of Codependent Relationships
 


 
What children see during their development is critical in establishing the patterns of behavior they display in later life. Individuals who experience physical, emotional, or sexual abuse, or who are a witness to such behaviors, or more likely to be codependent. Children are not the clueless extensions of ourselves that some adults seem to think they are. Children are constantly forming impressions based on what they see around them, and something as commonplace as seeing a parent being verbally abused by another parent can render them more likely to be engaged in a similar relationship dynamic when they get older.
 


 
Experiences during childhood is just one of the possible causes of codependency during later life. Individuals who have certain traits are also more likely to be involved in codependent relationships. So people with anxiety, depression, other mental problems, emotional problems, and sensitive people are more likely to wind up in a codependent relationship. As this list suggests, the empath naturally finds themselves in relationships of this type because of their emotional sensitivity. Empaths also may have experienced abuse themselves or witnessed it, making codependency even more common.
 


 
There is also something to be said for establishing patterns in adult life. Although empaths and other highly sensitive people may be at risk for falling into these relationship types, they can reinforce these dysfunctional relationships by becoming comfortable with them and not recognizing just how dysfunctional they are. Therefore, an empath who is in a relationship with a narcissist and is discarded after being emotionally abused will likely find themselves in more codependent relationships of this type if they do not recognize the pattern.
 


 
 
 


 
Recovering from Codependency
 


 
Indeed, recognizing what codependency is and how traits of your own cause you to be in codependent relationships is the first step to recovering from this pattern. The empath has to recognize that they tend to form relationships where their self-esteem is closely tied up in the actions or presence of another person. They are not comfortable being alone and lack self-confidence. For these reasons and others, they tolerate emotional abuse and manipulation from their narcissistic partner.
 


 
Recovering from codependency means recognizing the role that the empath themselves plays in the relationship. The narcissist is manipulative, abusive, entitled, and a host of other unsavory things, but the codependent person enables and encourages this behavior in the narcissist by tolerating it. Recovering from codependency, therefore, often means leaving the codependent relationship and beginning the process of strengthening (or developing) self-esteem. Codependent people need to become more comfortable in their own skin, more comfortable being alone, and need to stop looking to others to fulfill them.
 


 
Another important part of codependency is recognizing appropriate boundaries. The narcissist may be a parent, sibling, or some other close person that you cannot complete cut ties with (or do not want to). Therefore, you may have to put some thoughts into establishing boundaries with this person. This may mean refusing to talk about certain subjects and telling the narcissist that you will hang up the phone or leave if they bring them up. This may mean avoiding certain social situations with the narcissist. Based on your experiences and self-awareness, you can create boundaries that keep you from falling prey to the narcissist in a relationship that has codependent features.
 


 
 
 


 
Why Empaths Are Particularly Vulnerable to Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
The subject of why empaths are vulnerable to the abuse of narcissists has been touched on peripherally at various points in this book. For one thing, empaths look for emotional closeness in others and are therefore vulnerable to the deceptive tactics of the narcissist. Also, the empath already has a tendency to be codependent, so they are the perfect other halves for abusive narcissists who need someone else to enable their personality disorder (by putting up with it). Finally, sensitive people often have been the targets of abuse or have witnessed it, so they subconsciously recreate these unhealthy patterns in their adult relationships.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 7: The Energy Vampire
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
As an empath, you have a special talent that allows you to sense what is going on with other people physically as well as mentally. Being an empath allows you to feel what others are feeling at the same time as understanding what you are feeling. The empath has to develop a sense of which sensations are their own and which originate elsewhere. As perceptive as the empath is, even as they hone their skills over time, they run into problems when they encounter the energy vampire.
 


 
Energy vampires have the ability to hook their targets into the drama of their lives. In the clutch of their tentacles, sensitive people like the empath are sapped of their strength and left helpless and defenseless against further tactics. The narcissist is the energy vampire par excellence because of their master skills in manipulation, but the term can be used to describe a category of people. Others with Cluster B traits can also be energy vampires. In this chapter, we will learn more about the complicated dance between the energy vampire and the empath. We will also discuss skills the empath can develop to better deal with this difficult character type.
 


 
 
 


 
What is An Energy Vampire?
 


 
An energy vampire is someone who has the ability to drain the energy of others and to hook them into relationships where they will continue to be sapped of their emotional and spiritual energy. As with narcissists, empaths seem to be particularly susceptible to the energy vampire. They fill your consciousness to such an extent that you may have imaginary conversations with them or think about them when they are not present. The empath may feel strong emotions like anger after interactions with them (not uncharacteristic for empaths but especially common when dealing with certain types of people).
 


 
Empaths and other highly sensitive people need relationships where the other person is tuned in to their emotions to a high degree and is able to meet the emotional needs that empaths have. There is a codependency dimension to these needs, which the empath will need to work on at some point, but the point here is that when the highly sensitive person does not have their emotional investment in the relationship reciprocated, they can feel drained, depressed, and a host of other things.
 


 
Energy vampires have several ways in which they can suck the life out of their victims, but some have defined four types of energy vampires based on how they get their energy. These types are the intimidator, interrogator, victim, and the aloof person. One of the pitfalls of being an empath is that, when dealing with the aforementioned types of people, the empath can feel a desire to fix these people. This gives the empath an ego boost, but it actually benefits the energy vampire who is then able to suck the energy out of the empath and use them as they so choose (and as we have seen with narcissists, this is generally abusive behavior designed to make them feel better).
 


 
 
 


 
Types of Energy Vampire
 


 
The intimidator type of energy vampire bullies others and lacks the capacity to have empath for them. They expect you to put them first and will intimidate you into doing so. They are also manipulators who are able to charm but will quickly change their tune. Empaths will feel disempowered by dealing with these types of vampires. The aloof energy vampire does not give off much in the way of emotional energy, but because the empath can sense their emotional need, they give their energy to them, which replenishes the aloof vampire but weakens the empath.
 


 
The judgmental vampire has low self-esteem and loves to pick on others. They can use interrogation or the information you give them as an open door to criticize you and make you feel less than what you are. Do not take what they say personally. Keep in mind their deep pain and lack of confidence. Another type of energy vampire is the innocent vampire. These are people who are genuinely needy and do not drain empathic energy for malicious reasons. These can be children, elderly people, people with illnesses, or others that have a need that an empath can meet. The key to dealing with them is to establish boundaries, a subject that will be discussed in more detail in the next section.
 


 
The victim type of energy vampire believes that they are targeted. They are at the mercy of the world and other people, and they do not take responsibility for the events in their life. Victim vampires blackmail and emotionally manipulate others. The victim vampire, also known as the martyr, really has low self-esteem even though they are often narcissists and present the contrary image.
 


 
 
 


 
Dealing with Energy Vampires
 


 
The empath is able to pour out healing energy to the energy vampire. They do this because they feel a natural desire to help these individuals related to the intense empathy and sympathy that they feel. But the energy vampire feeds on the aura of the empath; therefore, this dynamic is harmful to the empath. We have already seen this in the case of the narcissist who engages in behaviors that leave the empath feeling anxious, depressed, weakened, isolated, and disconnected.
 


 
Empaths are able to give away their energy, their aura, to other people. The energy vampire is able to pull this energy in, becoming addicted to it. This creates a vicious cycle as the empath has a desire to give off their aura, and the vampire wants it to feed on. As with narcissists in general, the empath needs to have boundaries with the energy vampire. Because the energy vampire has ways of sucking off your energy (intimidate, interrogate, victimhood, aloofness), then the empath needs to avoid situations where these tactics are at play.
 


 
The empath also has to consider whether or not they should cut off ties completely with the energy vampire, although in the case of a parent or other family member, this is not always possible. As an empath, you need to protect your energy. As much as you may want to help others, you are not responsible for resolving the issues of others. Finally, the empath has to build their own self-esteem, confidence, and sense of wellbeing as a way of regenerating their positive, giving aura.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 8: Narcissistic Manipulation
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Communication with a narcissist is a minefield fraught with danger. This is because narcissists use their words to seduce, coerce, and deceive others. The language of narcissists is a code that the empath is generally unable to decode. Even when the narcissist makes professions of love, they are generally designed with another purpose in mind. We have already seen how a phase of the narcissistic relationship is characterized almost entirely by this sort of emotional manipulation.
 


 
The narcissist uses trickery in their interactions with others. We have focused frequently in this book on the harmful interactions the narcissist has with their relationship partner, but the narcissist is manipulative with everyone. Deception and misleading are a key part of this manipulation. Indeed, one of the rare times that those around the narcissist sees them as they really are is when the narcissist lashes out in rage because they are not being obeyed or because their true self is revealed for others to see.
 


 
What do we mean by manipulation in the context of narcissism? Manipulation refers to influencing the thoughts and behaviors of others. Those who have attempted to sanitize the term argue that manipulation is generally persuasion, which can be used for a positive purpose, such as leading others in a direction that benefits them. But when we think of manipulation, what generally comes to mind is one deceptive person attempting to influence another person to the deceptive person’s benefit and to the detriment of the other person.
 


 
This is the type of manipulation that we see with narcissists. The narcissist lacks empathy for others and does not see others as equal to themselves, so influencing another person for the benefit of the other person would be completely out of character for them. The narcissist will, on the other hand, manipulate in such a way that they are directly benefited, and the other person is harmed. The most basic form of narcissistic manipulation is deception. The narcissist lies when he or she presents an idealized version of themselves to seduce you. When the narcissist wants to destroy another person for whatever reason, they will use deception to turn those around the target against that person.
 


 
 
 


 
Why the Narcissist Manipulates
 


 
One of the harsh realities of narcissism is that manipulation is closely tied up in their personality disorder. Although some may argue with this point of view, it seems obvious that the narcissist cannot help but manipulate. If the narcissist did not manipulate, others would see them as they are, and they would be alone. Remember that the narcissist’s entire identity is a lie. The narcissist is not the superior, perfect person that they want others to believe they are and what they believe themselves to be. The narcissist, therefore, becomes trapped in a lie that must be told over and over again in various ways.
 


 
Think about the pathological liar. A pathological liar will lie about where they went to college, how much money they make, even what they had for lunch. In order not to be caught in these lies, the pathological liar then needs to tell a host of other lies until practically everything they say becomes a lie. Eventually, the pathological liar is revealed because they cannot keep up with all of the lies. Perhaps the pathological liar told you last week that he was the valedictorian at Perfect Person University, but then today he tells you that he was president of the debate team at Model Student University. This person was not able to keep up with the lies and thus were caught.
 


 
In much the same way, the narcissist, too, becomes caught up in their lie. The narcissist has lied about the sort of person they are in order to entrap you. When the narcissist begins to demean, bully, and belittle you, they reveal to you that they are not the kind, caring, loving person you thought them to be. But the narcissist knows that they need to reinforce the original image to keep you in the relationship so they might give you mixed messages of like and dislike, or they may suggest that any sadness or dissatisfaction you feel is because of something that you are doing and not they.
 


 
Manipulation goes far beyond the identity aspect of the narcissistic relationship. Indeed, the narcissist manipulates throughout their relationships. The narcissist manipulates others into doing what they want, they manipulate others into seeing things the way that they do, and, importantly, they manipulate others into staying in the relationship.
 


 
We have discussed the deception aspect of this manipulation and the idea that the narcissist has to keep up with the lie that they told in the beginning (the lie of their own perfection), but the narcissist also manipulates to maintain the relationship dynamic. The narcissist is superior and needs admiration. Therefore, the narcissist will engage in emotional manipulation with their partner to get them to see things the way that they do. They can belittle your opinions to get you to accept their viewpoints. They know how to make you upset or emotionally weak, and they will do this in ways that benefit them. This is emotional manipulation and it is a critical aspect of the general pattern of manipulation the narcissist engages in.
 


 
Finally, one of the most damaging forms of manipulation the narcissist engages in is the group form. This is basically the smear campaign tactic and it is also a manipulation technique. The narcissist manipulates their relationship partner to keep them in the relationship, but a time will come when the narcissist may wish to destroy the other person. The narcissist can manipulate other people into helping them in this destruction, rendering this tactic more effective. This type of manipulation is a sophisticated type of deception that the narcissist is good at because their low opinion of others makes deceiving them in this way easy and natural for them.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic Manipulation Techniques
 


 
We have touched on narcissistic manipulation techniques in other chapters of this book. In particular, gaslighting has become a well-known technique of the narcissist. Here, we will touch on this and other common techniques of the narcissist to help the empath mount a defense. As we have already seen, empaths are especially vulnerable to narcissistic manipulation because of their desire to form emotional connections with others, which the narcissist uses against them, and their codependency issues. The following is a shortlist of the more common techniques of narcissistic manipulation:
 




 
Using public and private shaming
 


 
Deceiving at the beginning of the relationship
 


 
Controlling everything in the relationship
 


 
Downplaying the achievements of others
 


 
Using other people to back them up
 


 
Playing the victim
 


 
Making everything bad in the relationship your fault
 


 
Playing mind games
 




 
 
 


 
Using Public and Private Shaming
 


 
Shaming is a technique of making others look bad. This can take the form of belittling and demeaning. One of the goals of shaming is to lower your self-esteem, which makes you vulnerable to the other techniques of the narcissist and keeps you in what is essentially an unhealthy relationship. Shaming can take place in public or private. Although both are damaging, public shaming can be particularly harmful to sensitive types like empaths.
 


 
Deceiving at the Beginning of the Relationship
 


 
Most people in relationships with narcissists stay because they do not see the narcissist for what they truly are. This is because the narcissist engaged in an elaborate deception at the beginning of the relationship, which is termed the idealization phase. The narcissist created an idealized image of themselves and the relationship, which the abused partner will always return to even in spite of evidence to the contrary.
 


 
Controlling Everything in the Relationship
 


 
Control is an important form of manipulation. Control in the setting of the narcissistic relationship is designed to arrange things to benefit the narcissist and not the other person. The narcissist will control all aspects of the relationship, from the places you go to what you talk about. The narcissist will also control the people you hang out with (even on your own time) because the narcissist wants to keep you in this hurtful relationship (at least until the time comes for them to discard you).
 


 
Downplaying the Achievements of Others
 


 
The narcissist downplays the achievement of their partner for a number of reasons. The first reason is that they do not value their partner so their achievements are inconsequential, at least in comparison to those of the perfect narcissist. The other reason is that the narcissist needs to maintain the dynamic that places them in a superior position and the other person in an inferior one.
 


 
Using Other People to Back Them Up
 


 
Empaths and other sensitive persons who involve themselves with narcissists generally do not recognize how vitriolic they are. One of the most effective ways that a narcissist can manipulate (and also destroy) is enlisting others to back them up. If the narcissist detects any resistance from the other person, they may coerce others into accepting their own point of view. They are able to do this using the same deceptive techniques they used against their partner at various stages of the relationship.
 


 
Playing the Victim
 


 
Playing the victim is one of the more interesting techniques of the narcissist. Although the narcissist does so much to harm and tear down others, they will play the victim. In reality, the narcissist does see themselves as the victim because they have a worldview that places them at the center. They are also entitled, which makes matters even worse. If things do not go their way, they are being treated unfairly and expect special attention. Although this is a form of manipulation, it is also a true extension of the narcissist’s underlying personality disorder.
 


 
Making Everything Bad in the Relationship Your Fault
 


 
The narcissist is notorious for not taking responsibility for anything. If the narcissist does something wrong, they will turn the situation around to make it your fault. If the narcissist is late to a meeting at an appointed place, it is your fault because you should have known that traffic was bad at this time and agreed to meet them later. Nothing is ever their fault because they are perfect and never do anything wrong. You, on the other hand, are constantly making one mistake after the next.
 


 
Playing Mind Games
 


 
Playing mind games is also known as gaslighting and the narcissist is notorious for employing this tactic too. The narcissist plays so many mind games that you can begin to question your own sanity when it is really the narcissist who has the problem. This tactic is particularly damaging to the mental health of the other person. It also serves to isolate them, which carries with it a host of other problems.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 9: Fighting Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism is much more than having inflated self-esteem. Narcissists engage in a pattern of abusive behavior towards others both as an extension of their distorted self-concept and as a tool to get what they want. As much as the partner of the narcissist may love them and feel the desire to help them, even recognizing the flaws of this person, the narcissist will never love you as much as they love themselves. Therefore, the narcissist cannot help but engage in behaviors that reveal the cold, hard truth of their feeling about you: you are a tool to help the narcissist obtain what they want or to feel better about themselves.
 


 
 
 


 
Secrets About Narcissists to Help You Fight Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Because the empath is a natural target of the narcissist, these highly sensitive people need to take steps towards fighting back against narcissism. Fighting back is a controversial subject. Some say that it is impossible to fight back against narcissists because they do not play fair. Others say that it is not worthwhile to try and fight back because the empath will always lose. In this chapter, we will explore ten secrets of narcissists that will help the empath take control of their lives.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret One: Narcissists Do Not Keep Promises So Make Fair Trades with Them Rather Than Extending Them Credit.
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissist has no problem making a promise, but they routinely fail to keep them. Narcissists do not keep the promises they make because they see themselves as special, and special people do not have to play by the same rules as everyone else. Therefore, one of the keys to dealing with narcissists is just that: to make a deal. If they do this for you, you will do that for them. Although there is an aspect of making a deal with the devil here, if you have to deal with the narcissist in your life, this is the way to do it without being taken advantage of. The narcissist will respect you for it.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Two: The Narcissist Expects Obedience, So in the Short Term, Kissing Up is Often the Best Strategy Until You Can Break a Run for It.
 


 
Sometimes you want to leave the narcissist but you just cannot at the moment. Perhaps the narcissist is the breadwinner in the relationship, or maybe they have turned your friends and family against you making it hard for you to find a supportive place to go. In the short term, you may have to suck it up and deal with the unpleasant behaviors of the narcissist. This may mean kissing up to them until you can get the heck out of there.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Three: The Narcissist Needs You More Than You Need Them.
 


 
The narcissist presents an image of perfection, superiority, and entitlement, but deep down inside, they are really an imperfect person who has to face their imperfections. Indeed, the narcissist will often lash out in a rage when their imperfections are exposed. The empath, in contrast to the narcissist, is sensitive, giving, and naturally forms connections with others. In short, you have a lot to give, and you do not truly need the narcissist even though your codependency may tell you that you do. In truth, the narcissist needs you, not the other way around.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Four: The Narcissist’s True Goal in the Relationship is Control.
 


 
The narcissist is the most controlling person that you will ever have a relationship with. The narcissist craves control because, on a certain level, they have an infantile, immature personality type that sees the world as an extension of their own needs and desires. The narcissist is not able to accept things that conflict with their own ideas or their own desires. A key to understanding some of the unfathomable behaviors of the narcissist is recognizing their need for control.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Five: The Narcissist Expects Unconditional Love from You but Is Not Able to Give It in Return.
 


 
It is extremely difficult to deal with narcissists for a number of reasons. For one thing, the narcissist mistreats people and seems uncaring about how this behavior impacts others. On the other hand, the narcissist expects unconditional love and obedience from others. The empath naturally gives this unconditional love, dipping from a deep well of empathy, but they must recognize that the narcissist will never give them the same type of love in return. They are incapable of it.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Six: The Narcissist Derives Pleasure from Causing Pain to Others.
 


 
The narcissist hurts others because they have a need to tear others down in order to lift themselves up. What this does is confirm all of the distorted beliefs of the narcissist: that they are special, superior, and deserve special treatment, etc. But the empath needs to recognize that the narcissist also derives pleasure from hurting others. They do not just do this because of a psychological need. This aspect of narcissism is one of the reasons why this personality type is grouped together with Machiavellianism, psychopath, and sadism in the emerging field of dark psychology.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Seven: The Narcissist Wants to Get You Before You Get Them.
 


 
There is something very animalistic about the narcissist. Where the empath is able to live in a world of altruism, emotional connection, and giving, the narcissist has a dog-eat-dog attitude. The narcissist believes that if they do not deceive and manipulate others, others will do these same things to them. For this reason, the narcissist uses their painful and manipulative tactics against you without concern for how you feel. No matter how perfect the narcissist may seem at the beginning of the relationship, this is really what motivates them.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Eight: The Narcissist Derives Pleasure from Creating Turmoil.
 


 
This is another dark psychological aspect of the narcissist. Dark psychology focuses on the times that human beings behave with a desire to harm, destroy, or otherwise be destructive with no clear motivation. The narcissist gets pleasure from creating turmoil. The narcissist does not have to have specific goals in mind when they create chaos. Yes, this can be a manipulative tactic to destroy a specific person, but the narcissist also derives pleasure from this state of affairs.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Nine: The Narcissist Views You as a Competitor and Your Relationship as a Competition.
 


 
The way that the narcissist thinks is entirely different from how the empath thinks, making them difficult for sensitive people to understand. Although the narcissist may have seemed loving and considerate in the beginning, they are not really this way. The relationship is a competition for them: a setting for them to come out on top of others and prove how they are superior. What this means pragmatically is that the narcissist will never be able to meet your emotional needs, so you have to stop expecting them to if you are going to deal with them.
 


 
 
 


 
Secret Ten: The Only Way to Beat a Narcissist Is to Play by Their Own Rules.
 


 
The narcissist can only be bested by beating them at their own game. The game of the narcissist involves manipulation, deception, and pain-infliction. As the empath is generally unable to behave this way without suffering in consequence, the empath may never be able to truly beat the narcissist. If you are a highly sensitive person, you will be unable to play by narcissist’s rules so the best option may be for you to get as far away from this person as you can.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 10: Protecting Yourself from Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Relationships where emotional abuse is a factor are inherently difficult, especially for emotionally sensitive people. Because empaths interact with others in a naturally sensitive, giving way, they have to work towards protecting themselves from narcissists since these individuals will use the empath's sensitivity against them. Everything you share with the narcissist is a potential weapon that may one day be turned against you since, as we have seen the narcissist regards the relationship as a competition where the role is to land on top. The following is a list of tips that empaths should take note of as part of mounting a defense against narcissists, both in their present relationships and in future ones (since they have a tendency to attract narcissistic types):
 




 
Always keep your guard up.
 


 
Pay attention to your intuition in situations where something does not feel right.
 


 
Learn to question your partner's intentions.
 


 
Question the belittling, negative language of the narcissist.
 


 
Make efforts to spend more time away from the narcissist (around other people).
 


 
Question the idealized image that the narcissist coerced you into believing.
 


 
Be aware of situations where you are doing things you do not want to do.
 


 
Do not let the narcissist touch you or engage in other behaviors that attempt to establish false rapport.
 


 
Be assertive.
 


 
Consider when it might be time to cut ties with the narcissist completely.
 




 
 
 


 
Tip One: Always Keep Your Guard Up.
 


 
The narcissist does not recognize boundaries and, frankly, the empath is not very good at these either. Because the narcissist sees the world and all in it as an extension of their will, they will always be looking for ways to pump others for information that can be used against them later or for techniques that can be used for abuse. The empath, therefore, needs to keep their guard up. Be careful what you share with the narcissist in terms of information. Be careful of giving them clues as to your emotional state. The narcissist does not care. They will only use this information to hurt you.
 


 
Tip Two: Pay Attention to Your Intuition in Situations Where Something Does Not Feel Right.
 


 
Empaths are naturally intuitive, but narcissists are good at eroding the beneficial defenses of highly sensitive people. If the empath listened to their intuition, they would constantly be alerted to signs that something was not right about the narcissist. Something they said did not seem right. Something they did not feel right. Use your intuition as a guide in interpreting the behaviors of the narcissist and in directing your own behaviors.
 


 
Tip Three: Learn to Question Your Partner's Intentions.
 


 
The narcissist lacks empathy for others, so there is often a disconnect between what their surface intentions seem to be and what they really are. So, giving your narcissistic partner access to all the phone numbers of your friends and family may seem like a good idea for emergency purposes, but it may not be considering what the narcissist may choose to use these for when they have discarded you. The narcissist can use these to turn others against you, destroying you. As an empath, you have to start to question your partner's intentions. This is an important step in defense.
 


 
Tip Four: Question the Belittling, Negative Language of the Narcissist.
 


 
The narcissist uses belittling and demeaning language to lower the self-esteem of their partner and make themselves feel better. This also serves to weaken the empathic partner and keep them in the abusive language. For the empath, therefore, learning to question and doubt the negative language of the narcissist is extremely important. The worst thing you can do is internalize this negative talk as it will only leave you depressed and isolated.
 


 
Tip Five: Make Efforts to Spend More Time Away from the Narcissist (Around Other People).
 


 
Isolation is an extremely important concept in analyzing the narcissistic relationship. The goal of the narcissist is to isolate you, as in this condition, they can continue to abuse you, essentially using you to enable their mental illness. Empaths have to make a conscious effort to break free from this isolation, spending time with people who will enrich their emotional energy and teach them that they are not the inferior person the narcissist wants them to believe they are.
 


 
Tip Six: Question the Idealized Image That the Narcissist Coerced You into Believing.
 


 
The narcissist is able to hook the empath (or other highly sensitive person) by pushing an idealized version of themselves during the early stages of the relationship. This idealized image becomes something that the empath always returns to when times are bad, keeping them in the abusive relationship. The empath has to face this image head-on and tear it down from the wall. The narcissist has shown you who they really are again and again. Believe the truth of your eyes and ears, not the deceptive mind control of the narcissist.
 


 
Tip Seven: Be Aware of Situations Where You Are Doing Things You Do Not Want to Do.
 


 
Empaths naturally create dynamics where they function in alignment with others. All animals are capable of doing this, and it is the empaths in our species that help to keep us together. But for the narcissist, this is merely a tool to manipulate. The narcissist wants you to be in mental and emotional alignment with them so you will be their hapless creature, doing all that they want and working in their interest. As the empath, you, therefore, need to be aware of situations where you are doing the things the narcissist wants. Stop.
 


 
Tip Eight: Do Not Let the Narcissist Touch You or Engage in Other Behaviors That Attempt to Establish False Rapport.
 


 
This is a tip that comes straight from the mind control handbook. Experts in mind control teach others how to establish rapport with others in order to get them to do what you want. Empaths are extremely susceptible to these tactics because emotional rapport is natural with them. But the empath needs to understand that not everyone out there is a sensitive soul whose intentions are good. The narcissist or energy vampire will establish rapport in order to abuse you or drain you of your emotional energy. Do not allow them to engage in the characteristic ploys to establish rapport like touching you, mimicking your gestures, or ordering the same thing as you at a restaurant. This is nothing more than narcissistic trickery.
 


 
Tip Nine: Be Assertive.
 


 
Sometimes the simplest strategies are the most effective. Empaths frequently do not assert themselves because their personalities are dominated by a desire to get along with others and establish cohesion. Empaths are highly understanding and can make allowances for the bad qualities of others. But when it comes to narcissists and other energy vampires, the empath has to be assertive. The narcissist will abuse you if you let them, so a key to stopping this abuse is to exert your will rather than merely going along with the will of the narcissist.
 


 
Tip Ten.  Consider When It Might Be Time to Cut Ties with the Narcissist Completely.
 


 
This is a tip that is easy for some but not for others. The narcissist may be a romantic partner in our lives, or it could be our parent, sibling, or best friend. You may not wish to cut ties with the narcissist because of a shared history or what they represent in your life. But an important step in healing is radical acceptance. The narcissist is never going to change. You have to accept that no matter how much you may have a desire to help them. Protecting yourself, even saving yourself, may mean cutting ties with the narcissist completely.
 


 















 


 
Chapter 11: Steps of Empathic Self-Healing
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The empath is a truly special person. They are capable of feeling the energy of others and of giving their own energy to replenish others. Some of the people the empath regenerates are well-intentioned people who genuinely need love, kindness, and emotional connection while there is also, of course, the narcissist and energy vampire. These individuals will drain you of their energy either for malicious reasons or because they cannot help it. This means that the empath, after learning how to protect themselves from these people, is still left with the need to heal.
 


 
Empathic self-healing is like recharging a battery. The battery of the empath has not only a high capacity to give off energy, but it is capable of being recharged to full capacity. The reality is though, that the deprecations of the narcissist or energy vampire can leave the empath in a weakened state, so weak, in fact, that the empath is left depressed, isolated, and with little will to live. The following is a list of self-healing steps the empath can engage in as part of recharging their emotional battery:
 




 
Regaining your confidence
 


 
Learning to be comfortable on your own
 


 
Breaking the cycle of codependency
 


 
Engaging in self-care and regenerating activities like meditation
 


 
Working towards self-actualization
 




 
 
 


 
Step One: Regaining Your Confidence.
 


 
It is rare for the empath to fully appreciate how much the narcissist has destroyed their self-confidence and weakened them. The narcissist is highly adept at behaving in stealthy, covert ways. Indeed, there is a type of narcissist known as the covert narcissist simply because they do not behave in the flashy, obvious ways that we come to expect from narcissists based on images in television in movies. Even after they have left the narcissist, the empath will usually find themselves lacking in confidence, even hollow. The empath needs to take steps to regain their confidence. This may mean partaking in the things they enjoy, rediscovering an artistic talent, going back to school, whatever it takes for them to break the hold that the narcissist has gained over them.
 


 
Step Two: Learning to be Comfortable on Your Own.
 


 
One of the problems the empath has to deal with is their desire to form emotional connections with others and what the implications of this are. Although it is normal and beneficial as a human being to seek an emotional connection with another, we have to be wary of needing others to feel complete or to meet an emotional need that we have. If we do not, we will find ourselves sucked into relationships that may turn abusive. The empath, hard as it may be, needs to learn to be comfortable on their own. This does not mean being emotionally cut off from others, but rather learning to meet their own emotional needs.
 


 
Step Three: Breaking the Cycle of Codependency.
 


 
Because the empath often looks to others to meet their emotional needs, they frequently find themselves in codependent relationships. Codependent relationships are unhealthy because one or both partners needs something from the other, which can cause them to enable the mental illness or addiction of the other person. The empath breaks the cycle of codependency by building up their self-esteem, learning to be okay on their own, and no longer looking to others to fill a need that they have.
 


 
Step Four: Engaging in Self-Care and Regenerating Activities Like Meditation.
 


 
This is a step that the empath can easily neglect to do. Many people have busy schedules filled with the obligations of work and family life. It can be easy for them to forget the importance of engaging in self-care. Self-care consists of the things that you do to maintain your peace and sanity. For the empath, this is particularly important as these activities can help to regenerate your emotional energy. There are many self-care activities that the empath can engage in for restorative purposes. Even taking a long, hot bath can help. Meditation is especially good for empaths because of its ability to relax the body and heighten the senses.
 


 
Step Five: Working Towards Self-Actualization.
 


 
Self-actualization is the highest need that human beings have. As people, we all have a sense of purpose, and self-actualization represents our desire to reach our full potential and meet that purpose. Once the empath has broken the bonds of abuse and codependency, and once they have worked towards restoring their empathic powers, they can work towards understanding what their purpose in the universe is and achieving it.
 


 















 


 
Frequently Asked Question
s
 


 
 
 




 
What is an empath, and why are they significant?
 




 
An empath is a person who is able to feel the emotions and experiences of others. The empath feels an extreme form of empathy, which involves sharing others’ feelings. Empathy should not be confused with sympathy, which means to feel compassion and tolerance for others often because of similarities or a shared experience. Empaths seem to automatically feel what others feel, even people who they have never met before who simply happen to be sitting in the same room.
 


 
 
 


 
Empaths are significant for a number of reasons. For one thing, empaths are especially sensitive and are therefore able to form deep, special bonds with others. But this sensitivity also poses dangers for the empath, which is the other major reason why this trait is significant. Because the empaths are sensitive and seek connections with others, they are vulnerable to the tactics of narcissists and other manipulators who are able to use the emotions and overall sensitivity of others against them.
 


 
 
 




 
How do I know if I am an empath?
 




 
The empath is a rare bird, and many empaths do not know it. There are specific traits that empaths have, with many empaths possessing many or even all of these traits. Some of these qualities can make life difficult for the empath, although many empaths learn the skill of adapting their environments to fit their needs. Some traits of empaths include the following:
 


 
 
 




 
You feel the Emotions of Others
 


 
Others would Describe You as Highly-Sensitive
 


 
You Are Overwhelmed by Negativity
 


 
You Introverted
 


 
Strong Intuitive Sense
 


 
You have a Low Pain Tolerance
 


 
You experience Difficulty with Images of Pain or Horror Movies
 


 
Attuned to Your Own Body
 


 
You Feel the Ailments of Others
 


 
Attuned to Other’s Dishonesty
 


 
You Are Weighed Down by the Problem of Others
 


 
You Enjoy Being Around Nature
 


 
You Prefer Doing Things One at a Time
 


 
You Avoid Overly Stimulating Situations
 


 
You are Perceptive of Noises and Movements
 


 
You have a tendency to Daydream or Get Bored Easily
 


 
You Are a Listener
 


 
You are Highly Perceptive of Time
 


 
You Don’t Work Well with Selfish People
 


 
You are Highly Creative
 


 
You Experience Fatigue of Unknown Cause
 


 
You Attract Narcissistic Types
 


 
Embracing Your Empathic Gift
 




 
 
 




 
What is narcissism?
 




 
Narcissism, in general, refers to excessive vanity and entitlement. Narcissus was a youth from Ancient Greek myth who spurned the attentions of others and was cursed by the gods to fall in love with his own reflection. The term narcissism thus developed to refer to this type of vanity. The term has a connotation of egotism and all of the negative behaviors that stem from it. Although the key characteristic of narcissism is vanity, narcissists are also grandiose, superior, and delusional, creating a person whose life and behaviors become trapped in a pattern of egotistical delusion.
 


 
 
 


 
Although the definition of narcissism may lead one to believe that they are merely vain and therefore harmless, the grandiosity, delusion, and lack of empath of the narcissist can lead them to engage in highly damaging behaviors. The narcissist possesses a false self, which places them at the center of the world. They will abuse others to maintain this distorted sense of self they have. They also abuse others because they are not able to appreciate the value that other people have. Because of the dysfunctional behavior of the narcissist, psychiatrists have created the diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder to help clinicians diagnose such people and make recommendations for treatment.
 




 
What causes narcissistic traits in people?
 




 
Psychology has advanced several theories about narcissism. Even Sigmund Freud, the most famous psychoanalyst in history, had a theory about narcissism. Freud saw narcissism as stemming from misplaced libido. He believed that libido, or sex drive, was one of the primary motivations of human behavior, and the narcissist’s libido was directed at themselves instead of at other people. Freud and others also believed that narcissism was normal at certain times of life, such as during childhood.
 




 
What is narcissistic personality disorder and how is it diagnosed?
 




 
Narcissistic personality disorder, or NPD, is a condition characterized by vanity and related beliefs and behaviors. Men and women with this personality disorder bear some similarities to other personality disordered patients while also representing their own special can of worms. The diagnosis of NPD is made using criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, and this particular diagnosis is grouped with several others (called Cluster B disorders). The symptoms of narcissistic personality disorder required to make a diagnosis include the following:
 




 
Grandiosity in conjunction with the expectation of special treatment by other people
 


 
A self-concept of uniqueness, superiority, and high status
 


 
A sense of entitlement, which causes the narcissist to expect submission from other people
 


 
A need for admiration from others
 


 
Delusions of special intelligence, power, success, and physical attractiveness
 


 
A tendency to manipulate others for reasons of personal gain
 


 
A feeling of envy others combined with the belief that others are envious of them
 


 
A reluctance or inability to feel empathy for other people
 


 
A propensity towards demeaning, belittling, and bullying other people
 




 
 
 




 
Can narcissism be treated by psychologists?
 




 
One of the reasons why psychoanalysts like Adler, Kernberg, and Kohut came up with theories about narcissism was so that psychologists could have a framework for approaching this disorder in therapy. Psychotherapy is regarded as the mainstay of treatment for men and women with narcissistic personality disorder, or NPD, just as it is with many other personality disorders. Because many people with this condition lack insight and empathy, important aspects of treatment for the therapist is working on these two areas.
 




 
Why are empaths vulnerable to manipulation by narcissists?
 




 
There are a number of reasons why empaths are vulnerable to manipulation by narcissists. For one thing, empaths are givers who naturally sense the feelings of others around them and are motivated to help others when they perceive a need. An empath can feel another's pain merely by sharing a space with them, and they are not likely to shy away from people who are needy or even dysfunctional the way that others might. 
 


 
 
 


 
An important aspect of empath manipulation, though, is that the empath is not always able to appreciate when they are being deceived. The empath perceives some of the needs that the narcissist has but does not appreciate the manipulative or harmful component. The empath is only thinking about connecting with and helping others, which can cause them to be trapped in a vicious cycle of energy-draining, manipulation, and abuse.
 




 
What is codependency and what does it have to do with narcissism?
 




 
Codependency refers to a relationship type in which one individual enables the mental illness, addiction, or behavioral dysfunction of the other person. One of the most salient features of codependency is that one person depends on another for their identity and self-esteem. A psychologist named Cermak studied codependent people and came up with his idea for a codependent personality disorder. The criteria that Cermak proposed for this disorder include the following:
 




 
Association of one's own self-worth with a need to control others and oneself, or suffer consequences as a result
 


 
Taking on the responsibility of meeting others' needs to the exclusion of one's own needs
 


 
Cognitive distortions centered around separation and anxiety
 


 
Involvement in relationships with people that have personality disorders, behavior problems, conditions of substance abuse, or who are also codependent
 


 
The presence of at least three of the following traits:
 


 
Anxiety
 


 
Depression
 


 
Hypervigilance
 


 
Compulsions
 


 
Excessive denial
 


 
Emotional constrictions
 


 
Medical problems tied to stress
 


 
Prior victim of physical or sexual abuse
 


 
Involved with a substance abuser for at least two years
 




 
 
 




 
Are all narcissistic relationships codependent?
 




 
Most narcissistic relationships are codependent for two primary reasons. The first reason is that the narcissist attracts and targets people with codependency issues. The codependent person enables the mental illness or addiction of others, and as they are generally sensitive types, they are naturally targeted by the narcissist. The narcissist targets people who they will be able to emotionally manipulate, demean, and abuse, which is typically the sensitive, less resilient type. Most narcissistic relationships are codependent because someone who is not codependent would generally see the narcissist for who they are and leave the relationship.
 




 
        
If I am codependent, how do I break this behavior?
 




 
There are many skills that codependent people, including empaths, can work on to break free of this characteristic. Codependency becomes a vicious cycle both within a relationship and from one relationship to the next. The first thing to work in is self-esteem, which will allow the codependent person to realize that they do not need another person to complete them. The codependent person must always be resilient, learning to bounce back or move on when they are being abused or mistreated. Finally, the codependent person (like the empath) must realize that it is not their job to fix other people. They need to learn to care for themselves, too.
 




 
How does isolation develop in narcissistic relationships?
 




 
Isolation is both a consequence of several behaviors of the narcissist and a tactic that the narcissist uses. In other words, the emotional manipulation and abuse of the narcissist causes the partner to become isolated, but isolation is also deliberately used by the narcissist to make the partner weak and dependent upon them. The narcissist will actively isolate their partner from family, friends, and anyone who might be able to help them. As it is not typical for human beings to live in isolation, this state of affairs can worsen a mental or physical condition and even lead to death from suicide or other causes.
 




 
What is narcissistic abuse?
 




 
The deliberately harmful behavior that narcissists engage in with others is referred to as narcissistic abuse. This term was originally used to describe the mental abuse that narcissistic parents inflicted on their children. In recent years, the focus of narcissistic relationships has shifted from parents and children to romantic partners. This type of abuse is generally emotional abuse, which the narcissist is an expert in.
 




 
Why are empaths especially vulnerable to abuse from narcissists?
 




 
There are several reasons why empaths are vulnerable to abuse at the hands of narcissists. Empaths seek an emotional connection with and this makes them vulnerable to the deceptive tactics of the narcissist who use emotional manipulation to draw victims closely. Also, the empath is predisposed to be codependent so they represent the perfect partner for the emotionally abusive narcissist. The narcissist seeks someone to enable their mental illness, which the empath or other highly sensitive person readily does. Finally, empaths frequently have been the targets of emotional or physical abuse or have been witness to it so they subconsciously recreate these abusive patterns in their adult lives.
 




 
What are the techniques the narcissist uses to manipulate?
 




 
The narcissist actively uses several techniques as part of their manipulation. Gaslighting, in which the narcissist causes the target to question their sanity, has become a particularly well-known technique of the narcissist. But there are others, and certain types of people, like empaths, are particularly vulnerable to them. The following is a list of some of the more common techniques of narcissistic manipulation:
 




 
Using public and private shaming
 


 
Deceiving at the beginning of the relationship
 


 
Controlling everything in the relationship
 


 
Downplaying the achievements of others
 


 
Using other people to back them up
 


 
Playing the victim
 


 
Making everything bad in the relationship your fault
 


 
Playing mind games
 




 
 
 




 
Why does the narcissist manipulate?
 




 
The narcissist manipulates deliberately and naturally. When we say naturally, we mean that the narcissist deceives and misleads by virtue of the condition that they have. The narcissist has a condition in which the true self has been replaced by a false or archaic self. As the narcissist believes in this false self, their words and actions are inherently deceptive since the self they believe in is a construct. The narcissist also manipulates deliberately in order to get what they want. It is easy for them to manipulate as they do not value others and lack empathy for them.
 




 
Are there signs that alert victims that they are being manipulated by a narcissist?
 




 
There are warning signs that a person can heed to be alerted that they are being manipulated by a narcissist. Some of these warning signs include the following:
 




 
No matter how often you attempt to leave the relationship, your partner always manages to lure you back in
 


 
You are subject to emotional highs and lows without warning
 


 
You are never able to meet the high standards of your partner
 


 
Your partner is a pathological liar
 


 
You experience the sensation of hollowness
 


 
Your partner is able to hurt you but also charm you
 


 
Your partner is always right and you are always wrong
 


 
Your partner demeans and belittles you in private and/or in public
 


 
You feel ignored even though you often spend time with your partner
 


 
Your relationship has caused you to be more isolated from other people
 


 
Your partner lashes out in unexpected bouts of rage
 


 
Your self-esteem is lower than it was before you met your partner
 


 
Your partner emphasizes their accomplishments and minimizes or ignores your own
 


 
You are more depressed or anxious than usual
 




 
 
 




 
How do I protect myself from narcissistic abuse?
 




 
The empath can easily become a victim of narcissistic abuse because they attract narcissists and energy vampires, and because they are giving people who have a desire to fix others (even highly disordered people like narcissists). The following is a list of tips that empaths and other sensitive people can follow to help protect them from narcissistic abuse:
 




 
Always keep your guard up.
 


 
Pay attention to your intuition in situations where something does not feel right.
 


 
Learn to question your partner's intentions.
 


 
Question the belittling, negative language of the narcissist.
 


 
Make efforts to spend more time away from the narcissist (around other people).
 


 
Question the idealized image that the narcissist coerced you into believing.
 


 
Be aware of situations where you are doing things you do not want to do.
 


 
Do not let the narcissist touch you or engage in other behaviors that attempt to establish false rapport.
 


 
Be assertive.
 


 
Consider when it might be time to cut ties with the narcissist completely.
 




 
 
 




 
What are energy vampires and what relationship do they have to empaths? 
 




 
Energy vampires are people with the ability to drain the energy of their targets, hooking them into relationships where the targets energy will continue to be drained. Empaths tend to be targets of energy vampires because their great empathy and sympathy for others leads them to give their energy freely. This can create a vicious cycle where the empath gives their energy to the vampire while the vampire becomes addicted and continues to feed. There are different ways that the energy vampire can suck the energy or aura of the sensitive giver. Four major types of energy vampires that have been described include the intimidator, interrogator, victim, and aloof vampire.
 




 
What are the benefits of empathic power?
 




 
The benefits of empathic power are many and they overlap to a degree with the benefits of emotional intelligence as empathy is so important to this type of intelligence. Some benefits of empathic power are the following: (1) better intimate and familial relationships with others, (2) better social relations for children and adults, (3) a tendency to be rated more positively by other people, (4) the ability to read the emotions of others quickly, (5) improved social dynamics in the workplace, (6) better self-compassion and self-actualization, (7) improved psychological wellbeing and quality of life.
 




 
Does the empath possess special powers that other people do not have?
 




 
Some have defined the empath as a person who possesses a form of extrasensory perception that others do not have. Although all human beings are capable of forming deep emotional connections with other humans, the empath does seem to have a special knack for sensing things that others do not. For example, the empath may be able to feel the sadness of someone who is sitting in the room with them as a mental feeling or physical perception. It has even been argued that some empaths are able to predict things by feeling them before they happen.
 




 
Are there different types of empath?
 




 
There are several different types of empaths. There are even different classification systems, with some listing seven empaths, others listing eleven, etc. Here we list one of the more popular classification systems based on how empaths identify with the types listed. Classifying the empath into types allows the empath to understand what they experience by putting a name to it. The types of empaths include the following:
 




 
Claircognizant empath:
 the ability to know or predict things without an explanation (this type of empath is intuitive and sensitive to liars)
 


 
Emotionally receptive empath:
 this common type of empath instantly feels the subjective emotional states of other people
 


 
Fauna empath:
 this type of empath has the ability to feel, hear, and form connections with animals
 


 
Flora empath:
 this type of empath has the ability to feel, hear, and form connections with plants
 


 
Geomantic empath:
 this type of empath is attuned to the energy sent by the earth, even to the extent that they can predict natural disasters like hurricanes or earthquakes
 


 
Medium empath:
 this type of empath has the ability to feel, hear, and form connections with deceased people
 


 
Physically receptive empath:
 this type of empath is sensitive to the physical pains and body complaints of other people, which they can feel in their own body
 


 
Precognitive empath:
 this type of empath feels events before they actually happen, such as seeing events in dreams or as physical sensations shortly before the event
 


 
Psychometric empath:
 this type of empath receives information and energy from inanimate objects like jewelry, clothing, furniture, and photographs
 


 
Telepathic empath:
 this type of empath is able to accurately read the thoughts of others
 




 
 
 




 
What are the different types of abuse that narcissists engage in with their victims?
 




 
Three important types of narcissistic abuse, of particular import to empaths, include the following:
 




 
Emotional manipulation
 


 
Gaslighting
 


 
Mind control
 




 
 
 


 
Emotional manipulation refers to the ability of the narcissist to use emotions to control and wound the target. Gaslighting refers to the ability of the narcissist to cause their target to question their sanity. The narcissist is highly effective at this behavior. They are adept at constructing a false reality using lies and manipulation. The narcissist sometimes enlists others to help them, and this is particularly effective in gaslighting. Mind control pervades many of the behaviors of the narcissist. Indeed, the idealization that happens in the early stages of narcissistic relationships is a type of mind control and itself leads to further mind control. If the narcissist did not engage in mind control, the empath would see them as they truly are and leave the relationship, saving themselves.
 


 















 


 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The empath is able to feel the world around them unlike any other. They feel the emotional energy and experiences of others in highly perceptive ways, ways that they can use to form emotional connections with others, and as a guide for their behavior. The narcissist, on the other hand, lacks empathy and uses physical and emotional closeness as a technique to manipulate and abuse. Empaths are particularly vulnerable to the narcissist because of their desire for emotional closeness with others as well as a tendency to want to fix people.
 


 
The empath generally does not understand how dangerous the narcissist is. The narcissist has a personality disorder characterized by grandiosity, excessive vanity, entitlement, a need for admiration, a lack of empathy, and a tendency to belittle and demean others. The narcissist is not able to have true emotional closeness with others because they do not value others. The personality disorder of the narcissist is characterized by a false, archaic self in which the selves of others are unequal or not recognized.
 


 
There are several different types of empath, categorized based on what sources they receive emotional energy from. All empaths are categorized by the ability to form emotional connections with the places, people, and things around them. Although it is important for empaths to embrace their great gifts, they also need to conscious of the pitfalls. The empath is vulnerable to narcissists and energy vampires who will take advantage of their emotional gifts and use these against them.
 


 
The empath is easily drawn into the codependent, narcissistic relationship by the deceptive narcissist. The narcissist relationship consists of the following phases: idealize, devalue, discard, destroy, and hoover. During the idealize phase, the narcissist constructs an inherently false, perfect image of themselves that they convince the empath to buy into. The fact of the matter is that the narcissist, as part of their personality disorder, also believes in this false construct, a disastrous situation that leads to further manipulation, deception, and abuse.
 


 
Empaths tend to fall victim to the codependent relationship in which one person enables the mental illness of another. In these relationships, one person looks to another to fill a need that they have. Part of empathic healing from narcissistic abuse involves the empath developing self-confidence and learning to meet their own emotional needs so that they do not look towards others for emotional completion. Combined with steps that the empath can take to protect themselves from narcissists, the empath uses confidence building, breaking free from isolation, and other activities to regenerate their store of emotional energy and live full and happy lives.
 


 













 
BOOK 9
 


 
Healing After Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 


 













 
Introduction
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Abuse of any kind leaves the target feeling physically and mentally weakened and vulnerable. Narcissistic abuse is particularly damaging because of the skillful manipulation that is part and parcel of the art of narcissism. It may seem strange to refer to this abnormal subset of behaviors as an art. Still, because it has been studied, honed, and practiced over a period of years, these behaviors can hardly be referred to as anything else. Indeed, recognizing that the behaviors of the narcissist belong to a pattern that is repeated from one person and one relationship to the next is important in breaking the cycle.
 


 
As many readers already are aware, narcissism impacts more than the narcissist himself or herself. Everyone around the narcissist—from relationship partners and family members to friends and coworkers—is pulled into the sinking ship that is life with a narcissist. Although anyone can have narcissistic traits (and many people do), true narcissism represents a personality disorder that can only be treated with the dedicated help of a psychiatrist or psychologist. Because narcissism is a personality disorder, the individual exhibiting these types of behaviors generally lacks insight into their condition, seeing the way they think and feel as healthy.
 


 
Indeed, though it is important to recognize that narcissism is a personality disorder, this recognition does not change or excuse the fact that this behavior pattern often leads to abuse. As you will discover in 
Healing After Narcissistic Abuse: Recovering from Emotionally Abusive Relationship; How to Recognize Covert Manipulation Psychology in a Narcissistic Relationship to Fight Narcissism and Codependency
, narcissism involves a peculiar egocentric worldview that is perhaps more common than many people think.
 


 
Narcissism, as a term, has been around for hundreds of years. This condition was a subject of great interest for early psychoanalysts as well as psychological theorists of the 19th and 20th centuries. The condition takes its name from a youth of Ancient Greek legend who withered away and was transformed into a flower because of his great vanity and effrontery. Narcissism has come to be associated with this basic quality—vanity—but as readers 
of Healing After Narcissistic Abuse: Recovering from Emotionally Abusive Relationship; How to Recognize Covert Manipulation Psychology in a Narcissistic Relationship to Fight Narcissism and Codependency
 will see, this condition involves much more than that.
 


 
The reality is that narcissism would likely be easier to deal with if it was merely a bubbling cauldron of self-obsession and grandiosity. We have all had to deal with the self-centered person in our lives, whether at home, at work, or at school, but the abusive behaviors, though related to a native vanity, involve more than this. The narcissist is incapable of seeing the concerns, emotions, or even the wellbeing of others as being equal to their own. They live on a planet of their own creation where other people are merely pawns to be moved about and discarded by the lone chess player: the narcissist themselves.
 


 
In Healing After Narcissistic Abuse: Recovering from Emotionally Abusive Relationship; How to Recognize Covert Manipulation Psychology in a Narcissistic Relationship to Fight Narcissism and Codependency
, you will learn how the behavior of the narcissist stems from an inability to equate the identity of others with their own combined with a startling lack of empathy. In fact, it is this last that people often remember about the narcissist because it can lead them to commit acts of great cruelty.
 


 
The narcissist can lure a weak, vulnerable, and sensitive person into a relationship characterized by emotional abuse. The narcissist can destroy the self-esteem of others, even causing them to doubt their own sanity, at will. They can annihilate the livelihoods of those they dislike based on imagined offenses. They can even wreak havoc on the lives of others for no reason at all. The behavior of the narcissist is often difficult for the uninitiated to understand. Still, when you approach this condition as a personality disorder characterized by a highly distorted self-perception and worldview, one that prevents the narcissist from seeing themselves and the world as it really is, the picture becomes much clearer.
 


 
Narcissism can be thought of as an essentially animal quality that is normal in humans at various stages of their lives. We refer here to the vanity and egotism of narcissism and not the pattern of harm that we see in narcissistic personality disorder. Children are narcissists because they see themselves as dwelling in the center of the world stage and have not been taught that the needs and emotions of others are just as important as their own. Parents are narcissists because they see some of themselves in their children and are thus encouraged to protect them and guide them in a way that is mutually beneficial. But narcissistic personality disorder and narcissistic abuse represent perversions of these normally surfacing, episodic behavior patterns. The vindictive narcissist has no compunctions against making a wild accusation against a coworker whose name is up for a promotion because the lives and livelihoods of others are meaningless to them.
 


 
Healing from narcissistic abuse requires that one recognizes the warning signs of narcissism, analyzes their own relationship for indications of narcissistic abuse, and learns how to protect themselves and recover from narcissistic trauma. Trauma is a strong word. Still, it is often used in discussions of narcissistic abuse because the victims of this type of abuse can relive their experiences and be mired in the paralyzing muck of mental illness, not unlike those that suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD.
 


 
Because narcissistic abuse can be so traumatic, recognizing and understand narcissism is not just a question of education, but a matter of survival. As you will learn 
in Healing After Narcissistic Abuse: Recovering from Emotionally Abusive Relationship; How to Recognize Covert Manipulation Psychology in a Narcissistic Relationship to Fight Narcissism and Codependency
, the narcissist knows how to select vulnerable people to be in relationships with them. The narcissist often selects sensitive or empathic people because they are highly vulnerable to suggestion which renders them easy to manipulate and control.
 


 
This is an important aspect of narcissistic personality disorder and narcissistic abuse to understand. The narcissist is a manipulator par excellence. Narcissists manipulate so well that the tools in their games typically have no idea that they are being used (often for malicious purposes). The seductive narcissist in the workplace will have a cadre of friends and followers that they use to harm others for their own gratification, and these people generally have no idea that they are in the hands of the narcissist.
 


 
In 
Healing After Narcissistic Abuse: Recovering from Emotionally Abusive Relationship; How to Recognize Covert Manipulation Psychology in a Narcissistic Relationship to Fight Narcissism and Codependency
, you will learn about the different types of narcissism in order to fully understand the sort of damage that can be wrought by these individuals. Understanding what has been done to you and accepting it is an important part of the healing process. Being a target of narcissistic abuse is not a death sentence. Millions of people have healed from it and gone on to protect themselves from winding up in the same situation yet again. 
 


 
Gaining an understanding of the narcissist is not unlike coming to know the modus operandi of the career criminal. Though this may not be their intention, the narcissist makes a career of using and abusing others to fill their physical and psychological needs. The narcissist has a sense of superiority that is tied to a false and grandiose self-image that they have created. Perpetuating this image requires that they attack others, essentially bringing others down and pulling themselves up in comparison. They do this without even thinking because they both have a distorted and egotistical worldview and because they lack empathy for others.
 


 
Empathy would prevent the narcissist from behaving in highly damaging ways to others because they would be closely attuned to the emotions of others. Empathy is a way of sharing the feelings and subjective experiences of others without words. It is a human capacity that is part of our collective nature as animals, and it is a capacity that is fundamentally lacking in the narcissist with dramatic effect. In 
Healing After Narcissistic Abuse: Recovering from Emotionally Abusive Relationship; How to Recognize Covert Manipulation Psychology in a Narcissistic Relationship to Fight Narcissism and Codependency
, you will learn how this lack of empathy pervades all of the damaging acts the narcissist engages in.
 


 
The journey of healing from narcissistic abuse will not be easy, but nothing in life that is worth having is. Healing from abuse involves more than merely understanding the abuser; it involves coming to understand yourself. In the first chapter, you will learn how psychology has approached the narcissist through the years. You will learn to distinguish the normal, adaptive types of narcissism from the behaviors that we associate with a narcissistic personality disorder. Some of the possible causes of narcissistic behaviors in men and women will also be explored.
 


 
It is really the traits of the narcissist that allow us to understand them. Fortunately for the person studying the narcissist, these individuals behave in a pattern that is stereotypical and which they repeat from one relationship to the next. They involve themselves in cycles of idealization, devaluation, discarding, and destruction punctuated by acts that have been termed love-bombing and gaslighting. All of these textures of narcissism will become clear in 
Healing After Narcissistic Abuse: Recovering from Emotionally Abusive Relationship; How to Recognize Covert Manipulation Psychology in a Narcissistic Relationship to Fight Narcissism and Codependency
.
 


 
What abuse means to the narcissist, and the target will be explored in the third chapter. Narcissistic abuse is essentially a type of emotional abuse that is engaged in by people exhibiting narcissistic traits, but there are many shades of emotional abuse. Indeed, sometimes, the only sign a person must alert them that they are being abused is a feeling of depression, hollowness, or confusion that comes after the interaction is over. The different types of narcissistic abuse, as well as the phases of abuse, will also be explored in this chapter.
 


 
Narcissists have a language that only they understand. They see meaning in interactions or gestures that others do not see. They learn what signs of yours indicate that you are happy and which signs clue those around you to the fact that you are sad. They use this information against you, and they are able to do this because they operate using manipulation psychology. Manipulation is a language that you will have to learn to understand if you are going to break free from the hold of the narcissist, and your first language lesson will be undertaken in the fourth chapter.
 


 
As the reader has learned, narcissists like to target emotionally vulnerable or empathic people because they are more susceptible to the type of manipulation that the narcissist uses. Human beings naturally seek bonds with other humans, and they facilitate this by behaviors that involve mutual emotional sensitivity and responsiveness. But because the narcissist sees others as different from themselves (and less than themselves), this type of emotional syncing up, if you will, is merely a way of manipulating people to get what the narcissist wants from them. This type of emotional manipulation is the subject of the fifth chapter.
 


 
If you are reading this, it might be because you have been the target of abuse from a narcissist. Perhaps you have seen narcissistic abuse in the relationship of a friend or relative, and you are wondering if perhaps the same situation is present in your own relationship. It is not uncommon for men and women to be aware of unhealthy emotional abuse in others but be blind to it in their own lives. In the sixth chapter, we will explore the narcissist's target. How does the narcissist know to target certain people, and how do they accomplish their ends? Another important question and one that often comes up is why the victim remains in a relationship with the narcissist.
 


 
One of the most curious aspects of narcissism and abuse is the ubiquitous nature of the tools the narcissist uses. These individuals have many tools in their arsenal. Still, when it comes to their close personal relationships—such as with an emotional partner or a close family member—the existence of a cycle soon becomes obvious. In the seventh chapter, the cycle of narcissistic abuse will be explored with the goal of helping the victims break this cycle of abuse.
 


 
The narcissist is so adept at their art that they can cause their victim to doubt they know the distinction between reality and fantasy. The narcissist can create a false story that is so convincing that not only the community but the victim themselves believes it. This tactic is called gaslighting, and it is one of the many weapons that the narcissist directs at those they seek to manipulate or to destroy. Healing from narcissistic abuse necessitates that you learn what this technique is, how it is enacted, and how the victim can fix the situation. Gaslighting can be part of the bigger picture of narcissistic brainwashing, a topic that is the subject of the eighth chapter.
 


 
Codependency is an aspect of narcissistic relationships that many people have heard of, but fewer people actually understand. Codependency as a term is often used offhand to refer to a relationship pattern in which the individuals involved have an unhealthy dynamic that keeps them together. In the context of narcissistic relationships, codependency is a behavior that is specific and damaging to the lesser, dependent partner. In reality, the narcissist depends on the lesser partner in the relationship to confirm and enable their distorted belief of superiority. How this works will become clear in the ninth chapter. The reader will also learn how they can take steps to recover from codependency and prevent it from happening again. The codependent relationship is an unhealthy pattern that does not have to become the norm in a person's life.
 


 
Unfortunately, sometimes, the hardest thing for the person in a narcissistic relationship to do is to admit that they are in a relationship with the narcissist. The narcissist is not merely a villain who resides in your house and is sucking the emotional life out of you; they are someone you love and have grown attached to overtime. It may be your husband, a long-time lover, or even a parent. You may remember the good times that you had with those persons, times which, unfortunately, may have been mere steps in a pattern of narcissistic manipulation.
 


 
Most people in relationships with narcissists are attached to them in some way, which is why they stay. If they were not attached, it would be easier for them to walk away from the relationship, and they may have less of a need for books that help them along in the process. In chapter ten, the reader will learn some of the warning signs that a person is in a relationship with a narcissist. These signs do not have to be as overt as crying frequently or noticing that you are doing things that you do not wish to do (although these can both be important). A sign of a narcissistic relationship can be that you are frequently confused, or that you are feeling more isolated from friends and family than ever before. Recognizing such signs is an important step in the beginning to heal.
 


 
Being in a relationship with a narcissist can destroy your confidence, making it difficult to form new relationships or to maintain the ones that you have. This result is not a coincidence but happens because the narcissist has engaged in actions that subconsciously erode your self-esteem. Therefore, another important step in the healing process is rebuilding your self-esteem. In the eleventh chapter, you will learn how to raise your self-esteem in the context of the relationship with the narcissist by engaging in acceptance, increased awareness, and other steps.
 


 
One of the most important steps that you can take in your journey of healing is to break free. The narcissist places their target in a hold of emotional and psychological manipulation that is designed to keep the target around until the narcissist no longer needs them. Getting away from the narcissist entirely is, therefore, a critical step in the target healing themselves, but it is not the only one. The victim must learn how to break the cycle of narcissistic abuse, feel content with themselves through meditation, and engage in other steps that continue the cycle of recovery. There were always be narcissists to be met with in the world, so a successful healing endeavor is just as much about getting away from the narcissist as it is changing yourself into someone who is no longer vulnerable to their designs.
 


 













 
Chapter 1: The Real Narcissist
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
The narcissist lives in a world of their own creation. In this world, a human being is little more than an object that can be moved about to accomplish this particular end or that. Just as one moves a chair to reach something on the top of the cupboard, or prunes the end of the flower bush to change its appearance, so too are human beings objects that can be moved or pruned to achieve whatever it is the narcissist desires.
 


 
We can say that the world the narcissist lives in is their own because that is how they see things. The events that occur in the world have meaning only to them because they are the only being whose concerns matter. They recognize that a human being is, in fact, a human being and not a potted plant, for example, but they do not recognize that such a human is of the same sort as they are. Many of the difficult qualities of the narcissist stem from this inability to equate others with themselves.
 


 
The narcissist is not someone who perceives the world in a distorted way because of ignorance, lack of education, or mental slowness. The narcissist has a personality disorder that impacts the way they perceive the world and their place in it. A person with an obsessive-compulsive personality disorder is engulfed in obsessive thinking that leads them to complete compulsive acts, which essentially eases their mind of the mental obsession. They are trapped in a behavior pattern that they are unable to break. So, does the narcissist find herself or himself trapped in a pattern? But it is one which is more damaging to those around the narcissist than to the individual itself.
 


 
There is interest in studying narcissism and narcissistic abuse because it is so traumatic to those impacted. Because the narcissist is superior and is incapable of caring deeply for others, they engage in acts that may lead to harm to others either unintentionally or intentionally. The narcissist lacks empathy, finding it impossible to feel the same pain that they inflict upon others. This is particularly the case in vindictive narcissism, where the individual deliberately harms others in devastating ways, behaving in a manner that flies in the face of social convention and which appears utterly inhumane.
 


 
 
 













 
What Is Narcissism?
 


 
Narcissism refers to a pattern of thought and behavior that reflects a deeply rooted sense of superiority and grandiosity. Narcissism is associated in particular with vanity, a self-obsession that underlies much of the behavior of the narcissist. But people sometimes forget that narcissism brings more with it than vanity and superiority. The lack of empathy the narcissist feels is the underpinning of the abusive behaviors that are a trademark of people with a narcissistic personality disorder. Although not all narcissists have a narcissistic personality disorder, it is important to understand both to comprehend the abuse that is the subject of this text.
 


 
Narcissism, as a term, takes its name from a character of Ancient Greek Myth. Narcissus was a young man of uncommon beauty. He was the son of Cephissus and a naiad called Liriope. Not all versions of the Narcissus myth share the same progression in the story, but he is often said to be a hunter who attracted those around him. The Greek world, filled with mountains, woods, and wild creatures, was the perfect setting for this idealized image of the hunter, a figure that sometimes crops up in other myths. But in the case of Narcissus, this idealized figure was one that was meant to instruct the listener of the tale on the pitfalls of vain cruelty. 
 


 
Narcissus was vain, and it was the cruel edge, as the Greeks saw it, which led to his undoing. Indeed, an important element of the Narcissus myth is the idea that his rejection of those who were drawn to his beauty was necessarily cruel and unjustifiable. It is a distillation of narcissism into its most important element: self-obsession to the exclusion of the needs (and desires) of others was unnatural and would be met with its just reward.
 


 
Narcissus's tale unfolded in this fashion: Narcissus encountered a young nymph named Echo who became hopelessly smitten with the young man. They were in the forest, and it was here that Echo made her advances to the young hunter after meeting him. Narcissus asked the maiden what her name was, and she responded, but her words echoed. The youth callously spurned her, leaving the girl crushed. Echo's body withered away, and all that was left of her was the voice, continuing to repeat words that were said to anyone who passed.
 


 
Unfortunately for Narcissus, the Greek gods always got their revenge, even when the inciting party was oblivious to the slight. This is seen, for example, in the myth of Arachne, who was transformed into a spider for her hubris in imagining that she was the superior weaver to the goddess Aphrodite. Nemesis, the Greek goddess of vengeance, revenged herself on the young man to a pool where he became transfixed by his own image. He was unable to pull himself away, leaving him, too, to wither into nothing. But the gods did not leave him with just a voice, as they did with Echo, but they turned him into a flower: the narcissus, which we know today as the daffodil.
 


 
Vanity is an important element of the Narcissus myth just as it is critical to narcissism as a series of traits and behaviors, but what comes from vanity is just as important as the basic motivation itself. This is true for the myth as well as the behavior pattern. Narcissus's vanity and superiority led him to spurn someone who loved him cruelly; perhaps he felt that Echo was not equal to the love that he would give if he were capable of giving any.
 


 
The vanity of the narcissist, therefore, motivates the series of behaviors that we associate with a narcissistic personality disorder, a topic that we will discuss in more detail later. The distinction between narcissism and the personality disorder that shares its name is really a matter of scale. Narcissistic traits and behaviors can be present in anyone (particularly at certain times). Still, most human beings have (or should have) empathy that tempers their interactions with others, even if it does not always serve as the wise advocate that it should. An individual may think or behave narcissistically on a rare occasion without necessarily having a narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
We might say that the narcissist is someone who exhibits a pattern of behavior that reflects vanity, superiority, a lack of empathy, as well as other traits. Indeed, for a diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder to be made, the individual must exhibit an enduring pattern of these and other behaviors, which would indicate to the psychiatrist or medical professional that this person is not exhibiting a one-off behavior, but a consistent dysfunction.
 


 
Of course, the casual term of a narcissist is occasionally used, referring to the person who exhibits traits of the person with this personality disorder. The narcissist might either be a person who is demonstrating narcissistic traits at any given moment, or it might be someone who meets the criteria for a diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder. Making this distinction recognizes that human beings, like animals, naturally have some narcissistic traits that surface from time to time, although, again, these traits should be tempered by more "humane" ones of sympathy, empathy, and altruism.
 


 
Labeling behaviors as narcissistic (and people as narcissistic) naturally implies that there is some inherent dysfunction in these types of behaviors. There is, but it is important to make the admission that narcissism would probably be less common if it were so fundamentally abnormal. As one psychologist put it, if we were solely motivated by caring for others, we would not be motivated to achieve anything of importance in our own lives. As humans, we have to be somewhat self-interested at times, or else our lives would be uneventful: devoid of any achievement.
 


 
Narcissism, therefore, exists on a spectrum, with behaviors that are consistently vain, superior, and lacking in empathy being on the dysfunctional end. In this book, we will speak of the narcissist as being a person who is capable of being diagnosed with a narcissistic personality disorder. The reality, again, is that many people behave narcissistically. As we will see later, as we delve into different types of narcissism, the narcissist would probably be less effective in the damage that they do if they were not aided by the narcissistic characteristics in others. This is a dynamic that will become clear as the behaviors of narcissists, and their results are more deeply explored.
 


 
As a precursor to exploring the psychology of narcissism and the causes (as well as a slew of other topics), it is useful to spend some time exploring some of the specific traits and signs of narcissism in others. A full discussion of this will be undertaken later, as it is an important topic of its own and merits being discussed in detail. It is important to think about signs of narcissism because the target of the narcissist is often unaware that they are involved with such a person. Seemingly minuscule things like feeling ignored or random bouts of anger from your partner can sometimes be a telling sign of the sort of person that you are dealing with.
 


 
Men and women dealing with the narcissist may find themselves dealing with an unexplainable and new lack of confidence. Having self-esteem is not only a normal part of being human but a critical one. One needs self-esteem in order to have normal interactions with others and to maintain healthy relationships. The narcissist destroys the self-esteem of their target, often a loved one, which serves a number of purposes for the narcissist.
 


 
The narcissist is a fascinating study because they exhibit both a visible sense of superiority and less visible insecurity (one which they carefully hide in a harmful web of behaviors). The narcissist manipulates the other person into believing in and supporting their narcissism, a startling trick that testifies to the skills of mental and emotional coercion of the narcissist. A part of this is pathological lying, a tendency which, unfortunately for the narcissist, is often one of the more revealing characteristics to the person dealing with them. Indeed, catching the narcissist in a series of lies is often the most palpable clue to the nature of the interaction.
 


 
The narcissist convinces the person in a relationship with them to buy into the fictional world of their superiority and your inferiority. This person can experience emotional ups and downs that result from their brain attempting to process a mixed message that does not jibe with what it knows to be true. Emotional ups and downs in the target also stem from the abuse that creates a whirlwind that is unhealthy and traumatic.
 


 
Because the narcissist is so adept at creating a persona that others buy into, the target does not always know that how they feel is a result of the way they have been treated by the abuser. For example, a narcissist may say cruel words to you while smiling or exhibiting a serene facial expression. This can lead to the target not being fully cognizant of the effect the words are having at the time or not being conscious that the narcissist is the source of the emotions are confusion that spring up. Because the narcissist is so false, their feelings to you can frequently change. Frequently they do not display their true feelings while occasionally, you may see the mask fall.
 


 
Indeed, the narcissist knows how to turn on the charm when it is needed. The narcissist engages in this game of cat and mouse - in which they seem to push you away with their abuse, but always somehow manage to lure you back in - because they actually have a need for you, even though their words and deeds seem to indicate otherwise. We will delve more deeply into this later when we discuss codependency. Still, the narcissist actually needs someone to support the inaccurate image they have of their own superiority, and it is usually the person who is in a relationship with them that does this.
 


 
Because the narcissist can be so cruel, the person in a relationship with them naturally reaches a breaking point at times. This does not happen in all relationships as often the partner becomes dependent upon the narcissist for whatever reason, or because they really do believe the narcissist's fiction that they are superior, and the partner is inferior. But some people do eventually realize that the narcissist is a harmful, dangerous creature, and when they decide to leave the narcissist usually finds a way to bring them back in. This pattern of being pushed to the edge but always being reeled back may be a sign that you are dealing with a person with a narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
Narcissists know on a certain level that if they want to gain admiration from you, they will have to work for it. And the way that they work for it is through belittling, demeaning, and sometimes bullying. By belittling you, the narcissist establishes that you are lesser, and they are greater. These belittling and demeaning can take the form of comments made, or it can occur as behaviors that establish that your wants, needs, or emotions do not matter. Bullying can be overt, but as with everything else in narcissism, sometimes the signs are not clear to the person who has found themselves nestled uncomfortably in such a relationship.
 


 
Much has been written about the impact of the abuse that comes from the narcissist, but sometimes we forget that the wounds can lie below the surface. The target of narcissistic abuse can be left feeling hollow, a sensation whose origin they will generally find difficult to pinpoint. This is one of the most damaging realities of narcissism: that the weapons can be so stealthy that they leave wounds of uncertain origin.
 


 
Walking hand in hand with feeling hollow is the sensation of isolation. One of the goals of the narcissist is to isolate you from others. This isolation is a way of harming you and making you more vulnerable, and it is also a means of making you more dependent on the narcissist. As human beings naturally exist in social groups, the isolation in narcissistic abuse is often the most devastating result and one that it takes the longest to heal from. Narcissists are capable of isolating people in the context of personal relationships - isolating their significant other from family, friends, and anyone else who might help them - or it can occur in group settings like school or the workplace.
 


 
In fact, although we often speak of narcissistic abuse as occurring in the context of marriage, romantic relationship, or familial relationship (like mother and child), narcissistic abuse can happen in large social groups, perpetrated by narcissists who you may not be particularly close with. The anxiety and depression of abuse occur in the more personal, intimate type of relationship as well as in the group setting. Indeed, the isolation that comes from abuse by a group (orchestrated by a narcissist) can be especially traumatic.
 


 
It goes without saying that narcissists are difficult to deal with. Unfortunately, this is true in a personal relationship as well as in the more formal setting of the office or school. The advantage of a personal relationship with the narcissist is that it may be easier to confront the narcissist in this context, but as the narcissist refuses to be held accountable for their actions, this can sometimes feel like a futile effort. Recall that the narcissist has an intense sense of superiority, so they are unlikely to feel that they did any wrong. If anything, you were the one who was wrong, and they will be sure to remind you of this.
 


 
By reminding you of your shortcomings, the narcissist both reinforces the stature differential between you and them, and they also weaken you by covertly making you depressed and anxious over your shortcomings. If you have any successes, such as a successful project completed at work or a raise or promotion, the narcissist will remind you that you only got that raise because the company is doing well this year. Or that because you graduated from an inferior institution to their own, you need a raise and promotion more than they do as it will generally be more difficult for you to gain and maintain employment. You see, the narcissist must always remind you of how they perceive you relative to themselves.
 


 
This is an aspect of narcissism that has led many people to advocate for walking away as the only way to break free from the hold of the narcissist. Although work has been done towards improving the narcissist so that they learn to feel empathy towards others and to treat them accordingly because the narcissist's personal and world view is so distorted, there will always be difficulty in fully trusting them. It can be argued that someone that has been abused is justified in not trusting their abuser (even if that abuse was in the past).
 


 
It is difficult to state what trust means in the context of a narcissistic relationship because such a relationship is often characterized by confusion. Just as the person with a borderline personality disorder can display intermittent bouts of love and hate, leaving the significant other weakened and perplexed, so too can the narcissist weave an intricate pattern of a fictitious persona characterized by manipulation and emotional abuse, but a pattern which is also characterized by bouts of rage. This rage can sometimes be the rare occasion in which the narcissist displays how they really feel. They do not value you, so it is easy for them to take out their anger on you. Also, they will feel rage when you do not adhere to their high standards, again reminding you that they do not value you as highly as they value themselves.
 


 
 
 













 
Psychoanalytical Approach to Narcissistic Behavior
 


 
The field of psychoanalysis has much to say about narcissistic behavior. Freud, the founder of psychoanalytical practice as we understand it today, wrote extensively about narcissism. He had a clientele of upper bourgeois Viennese (among others) that he used as fodder for his theories and treatment modalities. Students of Freud like Alfred Adler and, later, Otto Kernberg were able to expound on many of the observations of Freud to provide a store of valuable information about the traits we associate with narcissistic people.
 


 
Although psychoanalysis is not the mainstay of psychiatric treatment that it was in the past, it still serves as an important source of much of the information that we have about certain disorders, especially personality disorders. Personality disorders are still regarded as resulting from dysfunction in development, even if this reality is not always a conspicuous part of the treatment for these disorders. For example, Sigmund Freud perceived psychiatric disorders and dysfunctional psychiatric traits, like narcissism, as stemming from misplaced libido.
 


 
Motivation, or what we may refer to as drives, is an essential part of psychoanalytical theory regarding narcissism (and theory in general). Freud believed that human beings were primarily motivated by libido, that is, sex drive, and that disorders in human behavior can be analyzed psychologically by focusing on where libidinous energy was being directed. This approach allowed Freud to develop theories about how precisely disorders like narcissism developed and might potentially be treated. In the case of narcissism, a Freudian approach would argue that libido, or sex drive, in the narcissist is misdirected internally at the narcissist himself or herself rather than externally at others.
 


 
This approach to the narcissist seems to jibe with the Ancient Greek notion of this behavior pattern as represented in the Narcissus myth. Narcissus was punished for spurning others that were interested in him by being led to his own reflection, which he was unable to pull himself away from because of his vanity. Narcissus, therefore, does seem to direct the natural human affinity for physical closeness for others towards himself. The Narcissus myth is permeated with the idea that Narcissus should have been receptive to the interest that he received from others but was not. His vanity is related to this lack of closeness, perhaps even empathy, and the result is that he is punished by the goddess Nemesis in a highly poetic way.
 


 
But Freudian theory on narcissism, in which this behavior pattern results from misdirected sexual energy, is not the only approach. Alfred Adler, Heinz Kohut, and Otto Kernberg all presented their own theories on this type of personality, with Adler and Kohut diverging the most from Freud even though Adler himself was a student of Freud. Adler did not see human actions as being primarily driven by libidinous energy, but these actions were what he called purposively. Human beings were motivated to engage in this or that because of a desire to accomplish a task, a theory that was integrated into his individual psychology model. What this means for narcissism is that the narcissist is not merely giving into drives that he or she cannot control, but engage in activities (sometimes harmful) as a result of an at least partially conscious desire to engage in them. In other words, the narcissist, to some degree, knows what they are doing and may even be conscious that it is objectively "wrong." 
 


 
Adlerian theory on narcissism represents a trend in psychology towards shifting motivations from the subconscious to the conscious. Human beings are not merely machines that operate on basic programming (the drives or motivations), but individual agents that are capable of acting in accordance with their own goals, wants, or needs. This type of approach became more popular in the 20
th
 century as elements in Western culture that favored individuality, and individual expression over adherence to (frequently) archaic social norms became predominant. 
 


 
Of course, human beings are both primates and animals, and therefore must be subject to some measure of drives that they are not wholly conscious of; or at least this was the argument of other psychologists like Otto Kernberg in the 20
th
 century. If we say that humans merely engage in this activity or that because they choose to and not because they are driven, then what would stop human beings from deciding individually that they were not interested in sex, resulting in the extinction of the species? Why do human beings behave in ways that are difficult or impossible to explain, even by the individual actors themselves? 
 


 
The point, of course, is that human beings would seem to engage in some behaviors based on drives rather than conscious thought. This is important to understand when approaching narcissism because it impacts how the narcissist should be approached for treatment. For example, Otto Kernberg, who generally agreed with Freud about narcissism, divided the realm into three types. He referred to the three types of narcissism as:
 




 
Normal adult narcissism
 


 
Normal infantile narcissism
 


 
Pathological narcissism
 




 
Like Freud, Kernberg saw pathological narcissism as resulting from libidinous energy directed towards oneself rather than externally. Kernberg also focused on aggression as another important drive present in the narcissist, which Freud also emphasized. The modern diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder is defined by Kernberg as one of three subtypes of pathological narcissism. The other two types were a regression to infantile-type self-esteem and the so-called narcissistic choice of object. Of the three, narcissistic personality disorder was regarded by Kernberg as the most severe because of the manifestations that surface, which will be explored further in chapter two and later chapters. 
 


 
The major competing view to Kernberg’s is Kohut's, which focuses on developmental arrest as the main cause of narcissism. According to Kohut, the adult narcissist (i.e., the person with a narcissistic personality disorder) suffers from narcissistic objectives, wants, and needs that have not been satisfied during childhood and which, therefore, have persisted. A child should go from a so-called archaic and grandiose self to a normal self that integrates the wants and needs of others into actions and is capable of experiencing empathy. The pathological narcissist continues to have an archaic self rather than a normal one, and this is why they exhibit narcissistic behaviors and also have secondary drives of aggression. 
 


 
 
 













 
Causes of Narcissism
 


 
Psychoanalytical concepts of self and others are helpful in understanding the causes of narcissism. The narcissist has an enduring problem with boundaries, which results from an essential issue with their concept of self. The narcissist perceives others as mere tools to be moved about at will. The narcissist, therefore, exploits and manipulates others in part because they are not able to distinguish between self and others in a normal way. The narcissist is said to have bad boundaries, one of the seven deadly sins of narcissism, and this is because the narcissist sees others as an extension of themselves.
 


 
An analogy may be the person who has a pet, one that they use as an accessory or plaything rather than being able to understand that a pet is a living thing with its own set of needs, motivations, and even desires. A person that owns a dog may keep the dog in a cage all day and only take it out when it wants to play with it for an hour or two a day. They may neglect the animal or abuse it, without regard for the welfare of the pet. When the pet dies, this person becomes angry as their life has been inconvenienced, and they can, at least briefly, no longer experience that pleasure that comes from the pet.
 


 
Narcissists can even behave this way with children. A narcissist who is excessively and concerned with admiration from others may enter their child into pageants or competitions in which the child is subject to the luring eyes and attention from others. In reality, the narcissist both wants attention directed towards themselves as the parent of such a child in addition to benefiting from some of the admiration that the child experiences. Again, the narcissistic parent, in this case, does not actually see the child as distinct from themselves because they cannot normally distinguish between self and other.
 


 
Although psychology has not reached a consensus about narcissism, Kernberg’s theories about narcissism are helpful in understanding the causes. Recall that Kohut and others saw infantile narcissism that was not corrected by normal experiences as being the primary cause of pathological narcissism in adults. The normal infantile narcissism that Otto Kernberg referred to closely resembles the primary narcissism that Freud explored in his meanderings on the subject.
 


 
We have all experienced the tantrums and underlying self-centeredness of the toddler. The toddler wants to play with a toy and cries when you will not give it to him or her. So, you give the toddler a toy, but then they see another child playing with a different toy that they previously uninterested in. Now the infant cries because they want to play with that toy and not the one that they have. This is a normal type of narcissism at this age group in which the child sees the adult as an extension of themselves. It is the role of the caregiver to give the child what they want, and they throw a tantrum when there is a disturbance in this arrangement.
 


 
At this moment in the child’s development, it is unimportant for the child to understand that the adult is a distinct entity that has needs separate from the needs of the child. The narcissism of the child enhances the child’s survival by meeting those needs that are necessary to the survival of the child. But as the child advances in age, it should learn that others are not extensions of himself or herself and that the needs and wants of others are equivalent to their own. The child achieves this both through normal socialization by a parent and healthy interactions with others, again modulated by the involvement of a parent or caregiver.
 


 
In some approaches, therefore, narcissism results from a stunted development in which a person never develops past this infantile stage of being at the center of the world and seeing others as extensions of themselves. This may be a cause of narcissism, though some would argue that it is not the only cause. Kernberg recognized others cause of narcissism, such as a projection of the infantile self on an object, which he called the narcissistic choice of object. Finally, narcissistic personality disorder was recognized as distinct from the other types or causes of narcissism. He regarded narcissistic personality disorder as the type that was the most severe and the one suitable for psychotherapy. 
 


 
 
 













 
Introduction to Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Emotional abuse is common in narcissistic relationships. The narcissist may be unaware that the manner in which they treat others is abusive. Recall that the narcissist is incapable of truly understanding that other people are “selves” not unlike their own and with goals, desires, and needs that are equal to their own. The narcissist can be like the infant that throws a tantrum because others have not done what they wanted because they require that the world adheres to their demands like the infant. Unfortunately, instead of a tantrum, the narcissist may engage in narcissistic rage.
 


 
Narcissists go into a narcissistic rage as a result of a particular type of injury. When the narcissist receives a blow to their self-worth or self-esteem, they experience anger. This anger can manifest in different ways, ranging from irritation to violent assault. It has been argued that narcissistic rage happens when the true self of the narcissist has been revealed. That is the identity of the narcissist that does not adhere to the delusional self that they have constructed and convinced others to invest in.
 


 
Emotional abuse is a standalone feature in narcissistic relationships, distinct from narcissistic rage. One of the hallmarks of the narcissist is that they belittle, demean, and bully others as a part of establishing and maintaining the false sense of self that they have constructed (or which persisted during their development). The narcissist can be said to either not recognize the "selves" of others or, at the very least, to see them as insignificant or less than themselves. This allows the narcissist to engage in abuse. This abuse can serve the purpose of making the narcissist feel better or to keep the other person in the relationship. As we shall see later, the narcissist may engage in abusive behavior for no reason at all, embodying the so-called dark triad of disorders of which narcissism is one. In the second chapter, we will further explore narcissistic traits in order to understand better why and how narcissistic abuse happens.
 


 













 
Chapter 2: Narcissistic Personality Traits
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
It is estimated that approximately one percent of the population meets the criteria for narcissistic personality disorder. Because this condition, like other personality disorders, often comes with a lack of insight on the part of the sufferer, most people with a narcissistic personality disorder never present willingly to the psychiatrist or psychologist for treatment. This means that most people with the condition go undiagnosed, in many cases wreaking havoc on the lives of people who happen to be near them.
 


 
The one percent of people who can be said to be diagnosable with a narcissistic personality disorder is certainly an underestimate as it does not include people who exhibit narcissistic traits but perhaps have not exhibited a stable enough pattern for a clinician to make the diagnosis. Indeed, the argument has been made that modern, materialistic culture in the West encourages and enables narcissism in people, perhaps confusing the picture of who has a narcissistic personality disorder and who is merely rolling with the tide of a cultural trend.
 


 
As we will see in this chapter, narcissistic personality disorder involves the baseline vanity of the narcissist as well as a host of other signs that indicate to the clinician how pervasive the dysfunctional thinking of the individual is. As we saw in the previous chapter, psychoanalysts have argued that the narcissist has an archaic or disordered self that differs from the normal self of most adults, which permits them to see others as their equals and to have empathy for them.
 


 
Many readers may have notions about what a narcissist looks like or how they behave. Portrayals of a narcissist in the media have helped create a picture of what it means to be a narcissist: a fiction that needs to be modified with an understanding of how people with PD are diagnosed.
 


 
In the film Basic Instinct, the character of Catherine Trammell fits the bill of the narcissist as she is typically portrayed in Western media. She is stunningly beautiful, and she knows it. She uses her beauty and sexual energy to bend others to her will, which includes manipulating them into harming others. She exhibits a callous disregard for the lives of others and seems predisposed to harming others for little or no reason.
 


 
In the film, Catherine Trammell, played by Sharon Stone, seduces a Los Angeles detective who is investigating the case of a murdered lover of hers. The viewer immediately gets the narcissistic vibe that Sharon Stone's character sends, but perhaps begins to buy into her narcissistic self-concept. Catherine Trammell manipulates a lesbian lover to her ultimate demise and even finds a way of ridding herself of a former classmate and rival for the affections of the detective in the film (played by Michael Douglas).
 


 
In the end, Catherine Trammell is revealed as being the manipulator and murderer that the viewer always suspects that she is. She is shown clutching the ice pick that presumably was used to murder the first victim, and the viewer is left to reach the conclusion that her real nature is never revealed to the unsuspecting characters in the film. Catherine Trammell's disregard for the safety of others is characteristic of the narcissist, but she displays other qualities that obfuscate her condition.
 


 
Catherine Trammell is vain and entitled, but it is not entirely clear that she is superior or grandiose. She clearly does not value the lives of others as she demonstrates throughout the film, but her actions are so covert as to lead the observer to wonder what her true motivations are. She uses seduction and emotionality to manipulate and control others. She seems to have strong emotions of love and hate, but it is not clear when she genuinely experiences these because of the elaborate facade that she has constructed.
 


 
In reality, Catherine Trammell may have a narcissistic personality disorder, or she may have a borderline personality disorder, antisocial personality disorder, or all three. In fact, portrayals of narcissists in the media tend not to make clear distinctions between these characters, perhaps because they are not well understood outside of the medical and psychological community. Also, there is a desire in the media to sensationalize the lead characters and the drama that unfolds around them. And this can lead to characters who display traits of all the troublesome and dangerous conditions rather than merely one set or another.
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder has attracted a great deal of interest in the public precisely because men and women with this condition can be manipulative and dangerous, but this does not mean that every dangerous person with a personality disorder has NPD. Borderline disorder patients can be difficult and even dangerous in their own way, and the same can certainly be said for men and women with antisocial personality disorder. For this reason, psychiatry has grouped together these and other conditions, a situation that will be further explained shortly.
 


 
Narcissistic traits are problematic because they lead to abuse and manipulation: two actions that impact people other than the narcissist himself or herself. Because many laypeople perceive narcissism as being primarily an issue of vanity and self-centeredness, it is often hard for them to understand the abuse that comes from the narcissist. Still, as the reader will soon see, narcissism is much more than vanity and grandiosity.
 


 
 
 













 
Defining Narcissistic Personality Disorder
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder, or NPD, is the condition in psychiatry that encompasses the traits of people who exhibit vanity, superiority, lack of empathy, and other traits that are associated with narcissism. As we have already seen, narcissism is not automatically regarded as abnormal in psychology because there are instances in which such behavior is acceptable and adaptive. Still, NPD consists of those aspects of narcissism that are harmful to others and not socially acceptable.
 


 
The diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder is made based on criteria delineated in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, or DSM. As with other conditions in the DSM, a diagnosis of NPD is made based on a history of enduring and consistent behaviors that are dysfunctional. This allows episodic events of narcissism that may or may not be normal (based on which psychoanalytical theory you adhere to) to be excluded from this diagnosis.
 


 
As we shall soon see, people with NPD exhibit a pattern of symptoms that encompass vanity and grandiosity, but extend to behaviors that ramp these basic traits up a notch. People with NPD not only cause dysfunction in their own lives but in the lives of those around them as a result of their constant need for admiration, propensity to put others down, and pervasive lack of concern for others. These qualities lead to narcissists being abusive, a subject that will be explored in greater detail later.
 


 
NPD resembles other similar personality disorders in the lack of insight that people with this condition often have. The narcissist believes deeply that they are special, and they do not understand how others cannot see this or believe that they are equally important to the narcissist. The narcissist thinks that it is perfectly natural for them to behave the way that they do because of the uniqueness that they possess. It goes without saying that the narcissist is a difficult patient for the clinician to treat, although modern psychoanalysis does have an approach that prepares the clinician to treat them.
 


 
Of course, if the narcissist is a difficult patient for the clinician who only sees them once or twice a week to treat, imagine how difficult it must be for the person who is in a relationship with the narcissist or lives with them. The following symptoms needed for a diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder will be readily recognizable to those who deal with narcissists. The symptoms of NPD needed to make a diagnosis include:
 




 
Feelings of grandiosity in combination with an expectation of special regard and treatment by others
 


 
Self-concept of superiority, uniqueness, and higher status
 


 
A sense of entitlement, which leads the narcissist to expect and demand submission and subservience from others
 


 
A demand for admiration from others
 


 
Obsessive delusions of intelligence, power, special success, and great physical attractiveness
 


 
A propensity towards manipulation of others in order to accomplish their own desires and personal gain
 


 
A sense of envy of others combined with a perception that others are envious of them
 


 
A reluctance or incapacity to feel empathy for others
 


 
A tendency to belittle, demean, and bully others
 




 
People with narcissistic personality disorder are so problematic because they traits that they display do not exist in isolation but occur along with other, equally damaging and dysfunctional traits. So, the entitlement the narcissist feels is combined with a tendency to manipulate, a lack of empathy, and a propensity towards bullying and demeaning behaviors.
 


 
 
 


 
Grandiosity
 


 
The narcissist has a delusional sense of inflated self-worth. The person who is grandiose does not see themselves as they actually are or as others who do not buy into their delusion sees them. The grandiose person sees themselves as more than what they are. It is helpful here to remember the infant who is totally clueless that he or she is an infant, much like any other infant. The infant sees others as an extension of their own will, and this leads them to expect special treatment. In a similar fashion, the adult narcissist also does not have an accurate view of themselves and their world, and they expect to be treated by others with special regard.
 


 
Self-concept of Superiority
 


 
The distorted image of self that the narcissist has also led them to perceive themselves as superior, of higher status, and unique relative to others. As we have already seen, some psychoanalysts argue that the narcissist has an archaic self, which does not recognize and incorporate the selves of others in its world view. Because the narcissist does not recognize others as equal to itself (or even existing in the same way that the narcissist exists), this person feels a sense of high status that it can be very difficult and even traumatizing to break.
 


 
Entitlement
 


 
Because the narcissist is grandiose and has a self-assessment of higher status and superiority, they also feel a sense of entitlement. The infant narcissist sees others as extensions of himself or herself and therefore feels entitled to have others do as he or she wishes. This is perhaps even more problematic in adults who have a wider range of desires and needs than children and have creative ways of making others give in.
 


 
Demand for Admiration
 


 
One of the more interesting aspects of narcissism is that it requires others to reinforce it. This is a fact that those involved with the narcissist do not understand but need to. This type of person requires others to support the inflated and delusional self that they believe in. This means that they need your admiration, and this admiration is not meant to be internal. The narcissist requires signs of admiration and may engage in emotional abuse to get it.
 


 
Obsession with Delusions of Special Status
 


 
Narcissus was transfixed with his own image in the pool of water because he believed that he was especially beautiful, and he saw this as he looked in the pool. In a similar way, people with NPD have delusions that they are special in some way. This specialness need not be looking. A narcissist can also have a personality-based narcissism in which they believe they are more intelligent, funny, or have a better personality than others. This obsession is a delusion and one that others frequently buy into.
 


 
Manipulation
 


 
Manipulation is one of the most enduring traits of the narcissist. It is also one of the more damaging. Manipulation does not merely mean that the narcissist coerces and tricks others into giving him or her what they want, manipulation can also be a pattern of emotional control that gradually erodes the self-esteem of the other and weakens them to the point of powerlessness.
 


 
Envy
 


 
Envy is a trickier trait of the narcissist because it is two-sided. On the one hand, the narcissist expects others to feel envy of him or her because of their special attractiveness, intelligence, superiority, or other qualities (which, naturally, everyone else can see). On the other hand, the narcissist feels deep envy of others, which causes them to abuse others in order to establish dominance and maintain their delusional self-esteem. This double-edged sword of envy is closely tied to narcissistic abuse, and it is a trait that the psychologist would pay special attention to in therapy.
 


 
Lack of Empathy
 


 
The lack of empathy the narcissist displays is characteristic of these individuals, but it can be so extreme that it can leave others perplexed. The narcissist's disordered self does not recognize the selves of others as equal (if it knows that they exist at all), so this lack of empathy really stems from a lack of commonality between the narcissist and others. People may squash a bug on the pavement because it is just a bug. To the narcissist, you are just a bug, and therefore they are often incapable of feeling empathy for you.
 


 
A tendency to Belittle, Demean, and Bully
 


 
No examination of the traits of the narcissist would be complete without an exploration of these. Narcissism is not just vanity; it involves behaviors that let the other person know what their place is in the hierarchy. The narcissistic person will belittle, demean, and bully you into establishing that you are less than they are and to establish your lesser position in the chain of command. Closely tied in with this is the abuse of narcissism, and they both stem from the way in which narcissists perceive themselves in relation to others.
 


 
The traits of the narcissist allow the clinician to make the diagnosis of the condition, but because NPD can resemble other related conditions, the clinician does often have to put some thought into whether the patient has NPD alone or NPD in conjunction with another condition. Indeed, it is not uncommon for people with a narcissistic personality disorder to also be diagnosed with a borderline personality disorder or antisocial personality disorder because of these similarities.
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder, borderline personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, and antisocial personality disorder belong to a substratum of conditions in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual known as Cluster B conditions. These conditions have a special designation because they are regarded as similar etiologically and in the psychoanalytical approach. The borderline patient can confuse the emotions of love and hate and engage in acts of self-harm. The histrionic person has a flamboyant personality but is generally regarded as more harmless than the other three. The antisocial person is perhaps the most dangerous, engaging in acts that are designed to undermine and attack the institution of society.
 


 
 
 













 
Other Personality Traits of the Narcissist
 


 
The discussion of borderline personality disorder and antisocial personality disorder in particular naturally leads to a discussion of the so-called dark triad of disorders. These conditions are regarded as a manifestation of the dark aspects of the human psyche: an element that often involves engaging in highly-destructive, malign acts for no reason. The so-called dark triad includes narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy (or sociopathy).
 


 
The Machiavellian person shares some characteristics with the narcissist. This condition takes its name from Italian writer Niccolo Machiavelli who explored the idea that the Renaissance leader must be a politician who is able to act with occasional cruelty and disregard for the law (and human life). This is sort of a Napoleonic person who regards themselves as above the law (as rules are intended for lesser folk). The relationship of Machiavellianism with narcissism is not hard to make out. The psychopath is the person who engages in acts of wanton destruction and/or violence for little or no reason. Although this term has fallen out of favor in psychiatry, the psychopath can be regarded as essentially a person with an antisocial personality disorder. As we will see in later chapters, the tendency of the narcissist to engage in abusive acts secures them a place in this trio of conditions that can appear at first glance to be by some measure more severe than narcissism. 
 


 













 
Chapter 3: Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists may demonstrate traits that allow them to be characterized and understood by psychiatrists, but this does not mean that all narcissists are the same. Some narcissists have a more seductive pattern to their manipulation, while others are especially virulent and vindictive in their behavior. A similar statement can be made about narcissistic abuse. Narcissistic abuse is an umbrella term that refers to a spectrum of abusive practices. People with narcissistic personality behavior may all be involved in the abuse of one type or another, but some are apt to be more dangerous abusers than others.
 


 
Narcissistic abuse is a subject worthy of discussion because of the trauma it causes to the victims. Narcissistic abuse generally does not leave a scar or a bruise. This type of abuse can drive a person to a nervous breakdown or suicide. It can render people so depressed and isolated that they are unable to leave the house or maintain employment. Narcissistic abuse is traumatic enough that there are clinicians that specialize in treating it. And much has been written on the subject to provide guidance to those interested in contributing to this effort.
 


 
Narcissistic abuse us a difficult quantity to handle and describe because many people do not realize that they are being abused. Take the example of a man whose wife informs him that she has been seeing another man and inundates him with tales of her adventures. She tells him that this man is superior to him in every way and that she has finally begun to enjoy sexual pleasure. She goes on to say that the husband is entirely unsuited to her, and she deserves a man who is closer to her in attractiveness.
 


 
The wife decides to leave her husband for this other man, moving in with him. She remains married to her husband but has a child by her lover. After a couple of years, the wife calls her husband to hell him that she was wrong to leave him, and she wants to return. She says that she did not press for a divorce because there was always a part of her that believed that he was the man for her and that they would one day reunite.
 


 
The jilted husband agrees to meet with his wife. She brings the child, a little girl, with her to lunch at a public place. Meeting her, he genuinely believes that she regrets what she has done and wants to come back home. He notices that she smiles frequently and seems happy, but he also gets the impression that she is not completely insincere. He notices that her eyes seem to be focused on his receding hairline, and he remembers all of the times that she made fun of him for going bald and told him that no woman would want a man who was bald and fat. In the past, these words made him depressed and unconfident, which led to him eating more and becoming more overweight.
 


 
Though the husband is unsure of his separated wife's motivations, he feels inclined to take her back in. He can tell by her clothing and her worry lines that she is not doing well. He guesses that the other man either kicked her out or has been cheating on her. He feels sorry for her because she has a child and has not had a steady job in several years. He even feels somewhat of a responsibility to the child even though it is not his.
 


 
Throughout the meeting, the husband is reminded of how his wife mistreated him throughout the years. Memories of specific events come flooding back as he observes his wife's familiar mannerisms. This causes some discomfort to the husband because his wife says that the man, she left him for is entirely unsuitable as a father, and she wants the husband to raise the child with her. He feels uncomfortable because he understands that he does not fully trust his wife even though her words seem reasonable to him. In the past, the wife would be kind at sometimes and cruel at others. In particular, she would be ruthless when she did not get way, or when they ran into someone who incited her envy.
 


 
The husband begins to understand that his wife's cruelty fell into a pattern. He has been reading about narcissism, and he believes that she might be a narcissist. Indeed, the way his wife has treated him is reminiscent of the descriptions of narcissistic abuse that he read about. He realizes that this type of abuse can be subtle because the messages that the abuse target is fed by their narcissist are not so outrageous as to be noticeable. For example, the husband does find his wife to be quite beautiful, so the idea that he does not deserve her that she feeds him does not seem completely unbelievable.
 


 
But the purpose of this abuse is not to state the obvious so that all parties a clear on where they stand. The purpose of abusive words in the context of the narcissistic relationship is to demean the other person such that they obey the narcissist and accept their subservient position. This abuse also serves the purpose of isolating the person in a quagmire of self-loathing and depression, and this generally keeps the abuse target trapped in the relationship.
 


 
 
 













 
Definition of Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Narcissistic abuse can be thought of as any abuse that a narcissistic person commits against another person. That being said, narcissistic abuse historically referred to the manner of emotional abuse that narcissistic parents committed against their children. Today, we think of narcissistic abuse as the spectrum of damaging words and behaviors that are done by people with a narcissistic personality disorder.
 


 
This type of abuse is generally emotional abuse, although narcissistic people can become physical if in a rage. Emotional abuse itself refers to the gamut of words and deeds that can be traumatic to the other person. As we have seen, the narcissistic person is prone to belittle, demean, and bully others as a part of establishing the dysfunctional dynamic of the narcissistic relationship.
 


 
 
 













 
Types of Narcissistic Abuse
 


 
Those readers familiar with the literature on narcissism may be familiar with the terms gaslighting and love-bombing, which describe types of behavior associated with narcissists. In particular, gaslighting is a particularly effective tactic that these individuals engage in, which serves the purpose of weakening and isolating their target. Gaslighting is essentially a specific type of manipulation. Many different types of narcissistic abuse involve manipulation, a behavior the narcissist is particularly adept at.
 


 
The most common type of narcissistic abuse is emotional abuse, as the narcissist typically uses the emotions of the target against them. The narcissist is sensitive to the emotional cues that other people send, and they learn how to use those cues against them. Something as simple as an unconscious gesture that you make when you are happy or when you are sad serves as a clue to the manipulator of what you are feeling. In truth, the manipulator does not sincerely care how you feel because they lack empathy. They use these gestures as sources of intelligence that can be used against you either for manipulation or abuse.
 


 
In fact, the distinction between manipulation and emotional abuse is not always clear. Many books have been written that attempt to sanitize manipulation, seeing this as a tactic that people can (and often do) use for good. For example, a parent can manipulate their children into doing their schoolwork. A wife can also manipulate her husband into applying for that job he was recommended for. These types of manipulation are regarded by some as "normal" and not harmful. This leads these advocates for manipulation to see it as a form of persuasion rather than an art that is always used for harm.
 


 
Emotional abuse can be simply defined as using the feelings of others as a tool to wound them. Emotional abuse frequently happens in narcissistic relationships because the partner of the narcissist is often a sensitive person - an empath - who is particularly sensitive and responsive to emotional cues. The narcissist in the relationship with the empath, therefore, has not only amply information on what they are feeling but plentiful opportunities to wound them.
 


 
In spite of the supporters of manipulation, we can think of both emotional abuse and manipulation as types of abuse that occur in narcissistic relationships. Gaslighting, again, is a type of manipulation that is frequently found in these relationships, but because it is so singular, it is often regarded as a separate type of abuse. Gaslighting represents the unique ability of the narcissist to exert control over those around him or her, leading them to doubt that they understand the distinction between reality and fantasy.
 


 
This is the crux of gaslighting: the ability of the narcissist to cause the target to question their sanity. The narcissist is able to do this because they are masters at constructing a false reality that others believe in. For example, the narcissist can carefully create and spread a damaging lie that other people accept. Even the person the lie is about may begin to accept the lie, which is gaslighting.
 


 
For example, a vindictive or seductive narcissist (which we will learn more about later) may tell others that a co-worker, roommate, or associate is having problems at work and is about to lose their job. The narcissist says that this person has been caught violating office policy. This seems benign enough, but it is a powerful lie that it is easy for the target to believe. The target may then begin looking for another job (which might be the goal of the narcissist), they may subconsciously begin performing poorly at work (thus fulfilling the words of the narcissist), or they experience psychological effects like anxiety and paranoia.
 


 
Gaslighting can be more vicious. A narcissist may steal things from your desk or move them around, which may cause you confusion and doubt. They may follow you or get others to follow you to make you paranoid. They can engage in a host of activities designed to loosen your grip on reality, essentially a tactic that serves to make you a more vulnerable victim than you were previously. Gaslighting also serves to isolate you.
 


 
Isolation is a result of narcissistic abuse that can be considered another form of abuse. Most people learning about narcissism and its effects for the first time have difficulty understanding just how damaging isolation is. Individuals who are isolated not only experience psychological symptoms like depression and anxiety, they experience physical symptoms due to a release of cortisol and other hormones, and they are at much higher risk of suicide than the general population.
 


 
As we have seen, the narcissist isolates their partner because they have a codependent need to keep the partner in the relationship. You, as the partner of the narcissist, serve the important role of enabling and encouraging their distorted, archaic self. In order to maintain this self, they will belittle, bully, and engage in other abusive behaviors. These behaviors serve to isolate you by lowering your self-esteem and making you depressed, but the narcissist also actively attempts to isolate you by discouraging you from interacting with family and friends or planting the notion that these people dislike you and would not want to be around you.
 


 
As the reader may gleam, gaslighting is a type of abuse that pervades the other types because the narcissist requires the reality of the target to be distorted. In simplest terms, if you saw the narcissist for who they really were (and yourself for who you really are), you probably would not want to be in a relationship with the narcissist or around them at all. The false reality the narcissist constructs in there, and your life is in itself a form of gaslighting.
 


 
Some indications that you may be a victim of gaslighting include:
 




 
Feeling excessive doubts that you cannot control or explain
 


 
Feeling that the narcissist knows more than you do about everything (even about yourself)
 


 
Feeling that your sense of normal has changed
 


 
Feeling excessive paranoia without a clear cause
 


 
Becoming silent and withdrawn
 


 
Feeling hypersensitive and hyper-vigilant in your normal environment
 




 
 
 













 
Phases of Abuse
 


 
Later on, we will discuss the abuse cycle, but as the members of this cycle are phases of abuse, it is important to mention them here. The abuse cycle is divided into six phases: idealize, devalue, discard, destroy, and hoover. The narcissist naturally engages in this cycle in every relationship that they are involved in. This is not limited to romantic relationships. As the reader may already know, the narcissist is willing to discard even the closest blood relative without a passing thought.
 


 
The phases of abuse are also related to the phases of the narcissistic relationship. The idealization phase occurs early on in the narcissistic relationship. This phase may also include so-called love-bombing, which is designed to give the target an idealized view of the narcissist and the relationship. This merely sets the stage for abuse by reeling the target in with a fictitious idea of who the narcissist is. The narcissist wants you to trust them and see them as superior. Idealization allows them to do this by establishing the sort of rapport that human beings usually establish with one another, but which the narcissist is doing manipulatively and deceptively.
 


 
Indeed, many people have difficulty leaving narcissists because of the idealized images that were established in the idealization phase. Those who are abused by the narcissist and do not leave eventually will be discarded when the narcissist tires of them or no longer needs them. Before the narcissist discards their partner, they devalue them. This is a type of abusive behavior that involves belittling, bullying, and other behaviors that are designed to establish the relationship dynamic the narcissist wants. In reality, the narcissist does not value you and thinks you are less than they are, so they will naturally say things that reflect how they feel. The point, of course, is that the narcissist sometimes abuses intentionally, but other times they do it merely as an extension of the sort of people they are.
 


 
Destruction is a vindictive behavior that we will discuss further when we talk about the different types of narcissists and the abuse cycle. To return to the phases of narcissistic abuse, recall that the first type of emotional abuse is a type of manipulation that occurs with idealization. This is followed by more overt emotional abuse in the form of the demeaning and belittling remarks and implications the narcissist makes. Even disregarding your wants and needs is a form of abuse. These serve to devalue you.
 


 
We mentioned isolation as a phase of abuse, but we did not talk about disconnection. Isolation can be both physical and emotional. You can isolate yourself by remaining at home or in another location where you are removed from others, but you can also be isolated mentally. The narcissist is skillful at causing you to be both physically and emotionally isolated. A result of this isolation is a disconnection. Human beings normally connect with others of their kind, but a disconnected person has difficulty forming bonds with others and suffers all the physical and mental problems that stem from this.
 


 













 
Chapter 4: The Language of Narcissists
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissist can seem unfathomable to the uninitiated. They behave in ways that are hard for people, unlike them, to understand. They are so adept at manipulation, both emotional and otherwise that most of their targets do not realize that they are being manipulated. Indeed, the narcissist can be construed as an animal a little different from the rest of us. From their motivations to the manner in which they perceive themselves and the world around them, they are wired a little differently.
 


 
We can thus speak the language of narcissists. When one understands what motivates the narcissist and how they perceive others, one can begin to understand how to protect oneself against them and begin the healing process. Not all narcissists are the same, so understanding the language of narcissists begins with learning about the different types.
 


 
Men and women with narcissistic personality disorder all have the same basic characteristics - vanity, superiority, entitlement, lack of empathy, bullying and belittling, and others - but the manner in which these manifests can differ. Indeed, the reader will discover that although all narcissists can manipulate and be abusive, some can be worse than others. This goes without saying. The narcissist can be the type who is able to engage in a long-term relationship, even if that relationship is fraught with misery for their partner. Or the narcissist can be the type that is so destructive and vindictive that they create a path of destruction all around them in a relatively short period of time.
 


 
 
 













 
Types of Narcissists
 


 
In this chapter, we will review the different types of narcissists with the goal of helping the reader better understand narcissism. The partner of the narcissist may readily appreciate the traits that help make the diagnosis of the personality disorder, but by exploring further the manifestations of this condition, stronger defense against them can be maintained.
 


 
There are many different ways of categorizing narcissism, but in this chapter, we follow the system in which this behavior pattern is broken down into types based on where the narcissist's vanity is fixated and how they express their traits. The major division in narcissism is between those whose vanity and superiority stem from external traits versus those who have grandiosity based on something internal. But as we will see, narcissism can also be categorized based on other factors. It is even possible for a narcissist to have features from more than one type of narcissist.
 


 
The narcissist is a strange bird, though they may not know it. Their vanity and superiority seem natural to them, and it is normal and natural for them to act based on these characteristics. This is true of all of the different types of narcissism. The following is a list of the major types:
 




 
Somatic Narcissism
 


 
Cerebral Narcissism
 


 
Overt Narcissism
 


 
Covert Narcissism
 


 
Seductive Narcissism
 


 
Vindictive Narcissism
 


 
Somatic Narcissism
 




 
We tend to think of narcissists as being vain based on their appearance, but this is not true of all narcissists. Indeed, shoving the narcissist into this superficial box allows most of the narcissists to go unnoticed, poising them to wreak havoc on their loved ones and others around them. The narcissist can have delusions, and a sense of superiority based on an external factor, or they can be vain about something that others cannot see, like their intelligence.
 


 
The somatic narcissist is the type that is overly concerned with their appearance and sees this as a source of superiority over others. It does not have to be the case that the narcissist actually is better-looking or more fortunate somehow that others, they only have to perceive that they are. It is easy to stereotype everyone who is vain about their appearance as a narcissist, but the somatic narcissist engages in the other behaviors and has the other thought processes that we associate with this personality disorder, such as entitlement, belittling and demeaning, a need for admiration from others, envy, and lack of empathy.
 


 
 
 


 
Cerebral Narcissism
 


 
The cerebral narcissist can easily fall under the radar. We do not often think of narcissists as being vain or superior about their intelligence, their sense of humor, their personality, or other qualities about themselves, but the cerebral narcissist sees qualities of this kind as the repository of their inflated self. The cerebral narcissist can be a stealthy manipulator and abuser because they do not fit the bill of what most people think a manipulator or abuser looks like.
 


 
The cerebral narcissist may not be particularly attractive or prepossessing. We think of the narcissist as being obsessed with their appearance—like Narcissus staring at his own reflection in the pool —but this type of narcissist can seem relatively unconcerned with the externals. But they are still narcissists. This type of person may belittle, and abuse others based on their perception of a lack of intelligence in the other person. They may be superior about their charm, sense of humor, and great personality. These individuals can be very dangerous because they may have internal qualities that attract others to them. But when all is said and done, the narcissist always reveals itself. These types of people are just as entitled, envious, and lacking in empathy as the somatic narcissist, charming or not.
 


 
Overt Narcissism
 


 
Narcissism can be characterized by how explicit the actor is in expressing their qualities to others. Indeed, we can think of narcissistic traits as being those that are more obvious, like bullying and belittling, and those that are more covert, like envy and a need for admiration. The covert narcissist is the bully who is not reticent to demonstrate to others how little they think of them. These are not the seductive charmers who fool everyone; these are the people who place themselves on a pedestal from which they look down on others: a pedestal that everyone can see.
 


 
Covert Narcissism
 


 
All narcissists have the capacity to hide their true selves in order to slither their way into the good graces of others. As a discussion of overt narcissists suggests, if narcissists were honest about who they were, most people would dislike them and be immune to their manipulation. The most effective manipulator and the abuser are the ones who wear an attractive mask, whether this is an external mask or an internal one. A good manipulator is able to get you to like them and to trust them. This is really the covert narcissist, the person who acts in secret, perhaps hiding their true nature even from themselves.
 


 
Seductive Narcissism
 


 
The seductive narcissist does not have to use their body or their appearance to gain influence over others. Indeed, the seductive narcissist can be a cerebral narcissist who charms with their winning conversation or a great sense of humor. Seductive narcissism really refers to men and women who wheedle themselves into the confidences of others. This does not have to be a beautiful woman in four-inch heels or a young man with 20-inch biceps and a six-pack. This can be the comedian, the life of the party, which is just as effective at seducing women like men who are more favored phenotypically then himself (if not more so).
 


 
Vindictive Narcissism
 


 
There is a reason why narcissism is included in the dark triad of disorders that are particularly dangerous. The narcissist is vain and entitled, but they also have a propensity to tear down others, to destroy them, and some narcissists are more apt at this type of behavior than others. The vindictive narcissist represents the most dangerous subtype of this disorder. We think of vindictive behavior as resulting from a slight that sets the other person off, but the vindictive narcissist can be triggered by something so minor that it is barely noticeable.
 


 
The vindictive narcissist may be inspired to destroy you because you did not attend their birthday party, or you went but were better dressed than they were. Perhaps they noticed their boyfriend spending a little too long looking at you. Perhaps the vindictive narcissist desires to destroy you because they are envious of your intelligence, or maybe they just do not like you. But what matters is that the vindictive narcissist operates with strong weapons. They will use their words to turn everyone around you against you, perhaps even suggesting to others that they should harm you in some way. Vindictive narcissism is more common than people think, and these individuals share a comfortable cell in evil with the Machiavellian and the psychopath.
 


 
 
 













 
Manipulation Psychology Used on the Mind of the Victim
 


 
We have spoken much of manipulation as the art of the narcissist. What we perhaps have not delved more deeply into is the psychology that the narcissist uses to exert their influence. The narcissist understands human behavior very well, and they know just how to establish a place of influence over others. Manipulation psychology is not just about using words to get the target to do this or that. This type of mind control also involves using gestures and being conscious of the gestures of others to engage in a type of suggestion that most targets are totally oblivious to.
 


 
As we mentioned in passing previously, the narcissist has read you cover to cover just as if you were a newly-discovered book by Charles Dickens. They know which gesture means this or that, and which tone in your voice indicates what. They do not gain this knowledge because they care about you. They use it to manipulate and to wound. They can read you and learn when you are most vulnerable to a cutting remark. They will know at which times you are more open to suggestion than others, and use that information to plant an idea in your head. This is the type of manipulation psychology the narcissist uses, and it is highly effective.
 


 
 
 













 
Recognizing This Type of Mind Control
 


 
The time in a relationship where this type of manipulation is most effective is perhaps in the beginning. Although the narcissist may still have some learning to do as far as reading you is concerned, they will use their manipulation psychology tactics to gain power over you at this stage. The narcissist knows that human beings like to establish rapport with others, and members of our species naturally engage in this sort of dance, so they will use their tricks to establish a rapid and unnatural rapport. They will note your subtle gestures, like your hand or head movements, and they will copy them.
 


 
Though this may seem a silly thing to do, this is a type of suggestion or mind control that causes the other to identify subconsciously with the person copying them. Even ordering the same thing you order at a restaurant or liking the same things you like, like television shows or movies, is a way of establishing rapport through manipulation. This allows the narcissist to engage in mind control because once they have established this rapport with you, you are more vulnerable to a suggestion by them. 
 


 
It is important to recognize this type of mind control in order to break free from the hold of the narcissist. Most likely, you have not realized how much information you have given the narcissist. They know your moods, your gestures, and how to copy you when necessary. We will review steps on protecting yourself from narcissism later, but something as simple as being cautious about what you say and avoiding eye contact can be effective strategies. And you can easily recognize this type of mind control of being conscious of when you are doing things that are not in your best interest. Or when the words of the narcissist make you feel a particular way or seem incongruent with the narcissist's facial expression (which may be seductive).
 


 













 
Chapter 5: Emotional Manipulation Disorders
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Most people like to imagine that they would be able to detect manipulation when attempted on themselves. Still, the manipulation of the narcissist is a special can of worms that it can sometimes take an expert to spot. This is especially true in the case of emotional manipulation, as this often begins with mind control tactics that permit the narcissist to establish a hold on you.
 


 
 
 













 
Defining Emotional Manipulation Disorder
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
In truth, emotional manipulation is not the sole preserve of the narcissist. Any manipulator can engage in this type of manipulation, but it is certainly true that individuals with certain types of personality disorders seem especially adept at doing this. This list notably includes borderline personality disorder. The borderline person can pull the individual close to them into an emotional whirlwind that is closely tied to the disordered state of their own emotions and mind.
 


 
The emotional manipulation of the narcissist can be as effective as that of the borderline person, although it also tends to be more covert. With borderline individuals, the other close to them can often detect that something is not right, while this is not always the case with narcissism. Although both personality disorders are skillful at drawing the other person into a sense of closeness with them, in the borderline person, there is a sincerity of emotional feeling that is lacking in the narcissist. With narcissistic individuals, everything is false and contrived. Even the self that the narcissist himself or herself believes in is a false one.
 


 
Emotional manipulation disorder occurs when an individual experiences emotional disturbance, confusion, or other symptoms as a result of being target by a manipulator. These manipulators do not have to have a mental condition, although people with a narcissistic personality disorder or borderline personality disorder or often involved. Indeed, a person who engages in narcissistic behaviors from time-to-time can participate in these situations without having NPD. Such a person may have insight into their condition, which narcissists and borderline individuals often lack, a frightening reality as it suggests that "ordinary people" can be harmful narcissists too.
 


 
There are some tactics that can help to alert people to the fact that they are being manipulated emotionally. It is important to recognize these tactics as the first step in defense against them. These tactics include:
 




 
Minimizing your value
 


 
Public shaming
 


 
Switching the victim narrative
 


 
Outside reinforcement
 


 
Excessive control
 


 
Gaslighting
 


 
Minimizing Your Value
 




 
The narcissist perceives you as being less than they are, and it is important that you know it. The narcissist places little store in your good qualities because the world revolves around them, and it can be practically impossible to truly recognize what others are bringing to the table. Because they are self-obsessed, the narcissist will frequently minimize your value, both intentionally and unintentionally, a sure sign that you are dealing with one of their ilk.
 


 
Public Shaming
 


 
Shaming is one of the most powerful of the emotional tools of the narcissist. This tool is so powerful because it can lead to the target feeling isolated from others (or from society as a whole). As human beings are primates, we naturally exist in a social sphere, and a host of problems result when we are disconnected from this. The shaming of the narcissist can be public or private, both of which are effective in diminishing the self-esteem of the target, weakening them emotionally, and leaving them isolated and disconnected.
 


 
Switching the Victim Narrative
 


 
It is important to remember with narcissists that they are self-obsessed. This does not merely mean that they are vain or think about themselves in preference to others excessively. The narcissist has an archaic, dysfunctional self that is not able to adequately understand or incorporate the identities of others in their world view. The narcissist, therefore, sees everything that happens is being relevant to them alone. The narcissist will hurt and abuse you, but they see themselves as the victim. They were not wrong to say that you were stupid or fat. You were wrong to buy groceries without their input, or hanging out with friends from work without checking with them first. As much as the narcissist may harm you, they are the victim, not you.
 


 
Outside Reinforcement
 


 
Part of what makes the narcissist so dangerous is that they can be seductive. This seduction can be used to turn other people against you. Outside reinforcement in the context of narcissism means that the narcissist enlists others into the emotional manipulation and mind control that is directed against you. In this scenario, you are not the only one being manipulated, but you are the one the narcissist seeks to weaken, harm, or destroy.
 


 
Excessive Control
 


 
An overly controlling partner is difficult in any relationship, but the narcissist takes control to another level. Recall that the narcissist really exists in the world alone. All other humans, living things, and objects are really extensions of the narcissist themselves: tools to be bent to their will. Therefore, the narcissist naturally engages in controlling behaviors because they do not see others as having identities coexisting with theirs. You do not have needs of your own. Your job is to help them fulfill their needs, goals, and desires.
 


 
Gaslighting
 


 
We have spoken of gaslighting in the context of abuse, but it is an effective tactic of emotional manipulation, as well. Gaslighting can be used in conjunction with other tactics to be particularly efficacious. Enlisting others in the manipulation can really cause you to question whether you said something or did something, or whether everyone hates you as the narcissist has suggested. Gaslighting is also known as crazy-making, and the sense that you are losing your grip on reality can be especially damaging physically as well as emotionally.
 


 
 
 













 
Origins of Emotional Manipulation Disorder
 


 
In this chapter, we have touched peripherally on the etiology of emotional manipulation.  As emotional manipulation frequently occurs in individuals with narcissistic and borderline personality disorders, the origins of these patterns coexist with the causes of these conditions. Although psychology has not reached a consensus on what causes narcissism in general, we can generalize and say that such people either have a self that never developed past the infantile stage, or events in their life have caused them to have a dysfunctional, narcissistic self that bears some similarity to the narcissism of young children.
 


 
The emotional manipulation of narcissism (and borderline personality disorder) is an extension of their dysfunctional and disordered world view. The borderline person has confused emotions, which frequently result from trauma in early life. The narcissist, on the other hand, is somewhat immature and hurts others because they never learned to feel empathy as others have.
 


 













 
Chapter 6: The Victims of the Narcissist
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Everyone who interacts with the narcissist is a potential victim. As the narcissist perceives all around them as less than themselves and places little store on the safety and security of others, the harm that such a person does to its victims can be wanton and extreme. As has been previously stated, the victims of the narcissist are sometimes unaware that they are victims, which makes them perfect prey for a predator that lacks empathy for others.
 


 
Although the victim of the narcissist is typically the person closest to them, the narcissist has the potential to abuse or destroy anyone emotionally. In this work, we focus on the individuals closest to the narcissist when analyzing behavior and preparing for resistance, but the information in this chapter can be of use to anyone who is dealing with a narcissist. Many people who read about narcissism are the significant other or child of a narcissist, but education on this condition is also valuable to someone sharing an office or a flat with such people.
 


 
Some may be reticent to see themselves as "victims." It has been argued by some social scientists and others that we live in a culture of victimhood and that it is dysfunctional and entitled to men and women to perceive themselves as such. That being said, it is obvious to anyone who studies narcissism that the narcissist victimizes people, whether we want to label such people victims or not. The narcissist has been known to destroy the lives of others, leading to isolation from the outside world, complete mental breakdown, or death in such cases. You may decide that you would rather not think of yourself as a victim (if you have been targeted by the narcissist), and you are perfectly within your rights to do so. However, the actions of the narcissist are those of a person who lacks empathy and is, therefore, inclined to make others into victims of their whims.
 


 
 
 













 
Who the Narcissist Targets
 
 


 
We touched briefly on who the narcissist targets in a prior chapter. This is a subject that we will expound on shortly. We also mentioned in a roundabout way how the narcissist is able to coerce their target into a relationship of control. They can do this to a relationship partner, a family member, or even someone they are not particularly close to. Indeed, it is important to reiterate that anyone who interacts with narcissistic people (of which there are very many out there) needs to be aware of how the narcissist operates.
 


 
The narcissist sees all people as fodder for their manipulation and abuse because they see others as extensions of their will. In short, the narcissist does not perceive the selves as others as being the same as their own self, if they recognize the selves of others at all. This is a concept that is important to understand in narcissism as it underlies much of their victimization. It is important to remember this behavior in the context of this chapter because it means that the narcissist sees emotion as a tool to get others to do what they want.
 


 
This does not mean that the narcissist does not feel emotion. They do, but they frequently hide their emotions because they recognize how emotion can be used. When a narcissist does display emotion, it is often rage resulting from the anger they feel when they do not get what they want. Because the narcissist uses emotion as a tool, they tend to target people who are more sensitive to emotion and suggestible emotionally.
 


 
The empath is a typical target of the narcissist because of their emotional awareness and sensitivity. The empath is someone who naturally forms emotional connections with others, which enables them to rather quickly and effortlessly experience the subjective emotions of others. The narcissist is able to use the empath's sensitivity against them in several spheres, but two, in particular, stand out. The narcissist will use the empath's sensitivity to establish an emotional rapport with the empath as a first step towards manipulation and mind control. The narcissist will also use the empath's sensitivity to hurt them as part of establishing a subservient relationship dynamic and to keep them in the relationship.
 


 
The narcissist targets empaths and other emotionally sensitive people because it is easier for the narcissist to control them than other people. Someone who is not particularly sensitive, aloof, or not especially interested in closeness with others will be harder for the narcissist to establish rapport with and control as they will be somewhat immune to the typical tactics that the narcissist uses.
 


 
 
 


 
Why the Target Stays with the Narcissist
 


 
When one thinks about how the narcissist gains influence over their target, it is not difficult to understand why the target remains in the relationship, even to their own detriment. The target is an emotionally aware person who enjoys closeness with others and naturally establishes emotional bonds. The target will have established a bond with the narcissist. This is because of the strategies the narcissist has engaged in to accomplish this.
 


 
In other words, the target will remain in a relationship with the narcissist because they have become close to the narcissist. We have only briefly mentioned idealization and love-bombing, but the image that the partner (or family member) of the narcissist has of this person is often not true to reality. They may see the narcissist as a loving and good person who generally cares about them when this is, in fact, not who the narcissist is at all. It can be important for the narcissist to do some reality testing in order to get an accurate sense of who the narcissist is. Was the narcissist there for you when you really needed someone? Does the narcissist make you feel better or worse? Do you have a mental list of all of the bad things that the narcissist had done to you? Approaching matters this way can help you realize that the narcissist is not the loved one you perhaps thought they were, but someone who is not actually capable of loving you.
 


 













 
Chapter 7: The Cycle of Abuse
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The abuse of narcissism does not occur in isolation. It is part of a pattern of behaviors that reflects the underlying dysfunction of the narcissist. Indeed, the narcissistic relationship generally begins rather differently than how it ends. The narcissist understands that control is the name of the game, and they will begin the relationship by leveraging their position, allowing them to engage in mind control and manipulation later on in the relationship.
 


 
If the narcissist revealed their true character to you in the early stages of the relationship, you would likely run away screaming. The narcissist, therefore, creates a false image of himself or herself that you believe so readily that you see it as the true self of the narcissist, ignoring even the evidence of your own eyes. It is important to note that this type of manipulation, though it is prominent in the early days, can occur throughout the relationship.
 


 
If we take the example of a narcissistic relationship involving a parent and a child, it becomes clear that the abuse cycle not only repeats but sometimes the various stages of the cycle collide and overlap with one another. In this regard, the narcissist is not unlike the person with borderline personality disorder who has difficulty controlling their emotion and therefore presents an image of someone who is involved in an emotional rollercoaster.
 


 
But unlike the borderline person, the narcissist is calculating enough to pull out the stops when they feel you slipping away. It is certainly true that the narcissist will discard and destroy when he or she feels that the time is right for one or both of those things. However, if the narcissist still needs you, then he or she will do all they can to manipulate you into staying in the relationship and into believing that the relationship has value.
 


 
 
 













 
The Abuse Cycle
 
 


 
The narcissist is able to manipulate in this way by using emotions and by using reminders of the way things were, in the beginning, to doubt that you really understand what is happening. In other words, even if you are a victim of abuse and you develop an awareness of what the narcissist is doing, you may still believe the narcissist to be a good person that loves you because of the efforts the narcissist made to plant this idea in the early stages of the relationship. In the first stage or phase of the abuse cycle, the idealization phase, therefore, becomes essential in allowing the other stages of abuse to occur. The stages of the abuse cycle are as follows:
 




 
Idealize (or idealization)
 


 
Devalue (or devaluation)
 


 
Discard
 


 
Destroy
 


 
Hoover
 




 
 
 


 
Idealize
 


 
The idealize phase of the abuse cycle is complex psychologically because there are several processes at work. On the one hand, the narcissist is engaged in constructing an image of himself or herself - a false image - that you believe in enough to stay in a relationship with the narcissist even when they are abusive towards you. This is an example of how the narcissist can manipulate you and engage in mind control as they are, in fact controlling your actions and your thoughts through a type of implanting and suggestion. On the other hand, the narcissist possesses a false, supercilious sense of self that is not true to reality. The narcissist may not truly understand the sort of person they are.
 


 
The idealize phase, therefore, involves the narcissist projecting their own superior image of themselves on to you, and exaggerating this positive image through behaviors that have a suggestive purpose. This is where the behavior of love-bombing comes into play. Love-bombing refers to the words and other displays of affection that the narcissist engages in early on as a way of establishing a loving rapport with you. But this is really a type of manipulation as the narcissist often is incapable of truly loving another person. Recall that the narcissist does not see others as equal to themselves, which poises them to trample on the rights of others and even harm them. How the narcissist really feels becomes apparent as you move into the next phase of the abuse cycle, that of devalue.
 


 
Devalue
 


 
The narcissist does not see you as their equal, an intrinsic belief that they will hide from you early on in the relationship. Some psychologists believe that the narcissists have an archaic or infantile idea of "self" that sees others as mere extensions of their own self: tools to be used to achieve their will. This is not unlike the child who cries to get the parent to meet their needs until the parent, over time, begins to teach the child to be less self-centered.
 


 
Because the narcissist does not see their partners, family members, and others around them as their equal, they eventually engage in a phase of verbal abuse that establishes the relationship dynamic: one in which the narcissist is superior and in control. The narcissist devalues both as an expression of how they really feel about the other person and as a form of manipulation.
 


 
Devaluation serves the purpose of enabling the narcissist's superior sense of self, and weakening or even destroying the self of the other. This serves the purpose of keeping the other person in this unhealthy relationship by making them vulnerable and isolated and by engendering the notion that the narcissist really is better than they are, and they are lucky to have him or her. Devaluation does not have to be accomplished with words. The narcissist can also engage in actions that display your lack of value, like deleting your contacts in your phone, reading and hiding your mail, throwing out your clothes, and the like.
 


 
Discard
 


 
The other serves a specific purpose in the narcissistic relationship. This is not a loving relationship in which both partners value and respect one another, or in which they will grow together in a healthy way. The narcissist only shows love in order to lure you into investing in the relationship or to meet their specific physical and emotional needs at the time. Therefore, when the narcissist no longer needs you, they will discard you.
 


 
Discarding is an important part of the abuse cycle as it represents the callousness and lack of empathy for the narcissist. This phase is not unlike the hurtful rejection by Narcissus of those that loved him. The narcissist will discard you in order to hurt you, or because they simply have no use for you anymore. Perhaps another relationship partner has entered the mix whom the narcissist feels is more appropriate for their needs. And the narcissist will be sure to rub it in your face as part of their abuse. Though this type of abuse can be very painful to experience, it is important for you to see who the narcissist really is and how they truly feel about you.
 


 
Destroy
 


 
Destruction is the strong point of the vindictive narcissist, but anyone with this personality disorder can engage in this behavior. The vindictive narcissist destroys because they feel anger or rage at another person; it does not have to be a relationship partner. Destruction, however, is a particularly powerful tool to use against those who are in a relationship with the narcissist because these individuals are more vulnerable to this type of attack.
 


 
We do not expect those that we love to humiliate us, destroy our reputations, or do things to make us feel worthless and helpless. But this is the goal of the narcissist in the destroy phase of the relationship. After the narcissist has discarded you, they will engage in destroying you, which can happen by rubbing their new relationship in your face, irreparably damaging your self-esteem, and even taking actions to make your life difficult or impossible. Narcissists do this both because they see you as little more than an ant to step on, and because they do not have the empathy that would enable them to understand what it feels like to be treated in this way.
 


 
Hoover
 


 
Even after the narcissist has discarded and destroyed you, going so far as to recruit others to help them in this process, they will remain in your life. It can be important for the narcissist to keep a tie to their victims. This tie allows the narcissist to continue to harm you from a distance. It also serves the purpose of supporting the narcissist's superior sense of self by having a target to abuse and demean to make themselves feel better. The narcissist likely has moved on to another relationship. But by maintaining a connection of some sort with you, they are able to continue to engage in abuse (while being in the idealization phase with someone else).
 


 
It may be difficult to understand why a person would allow the narcissist to "hoover" when at this point it should be clear the sort of person the narcissist is, but that image of the narcissist from the idealization phase—of the person who is god-sent in answer to your prayers—still persists, even after all that has happened. Remember, too, that the target of the narcissist is often an empath or another highly-sensitive person who wants to have emotional connections with others and makes efforts to maintain them.
 


 
As much harm as the cycle of abuse can do to the psyche of the victim, and the cycle can be broken. Unfortunately for some, it can take going through all of the phases of the cycle for a person to realize the caliber of individuals that they are dealing with in the narcissist. But if you are able to recognize the abuse of the narcissist while it is happening, you can work on steps to help you regain your self-esteem and cut ties with the narcissist for good.
 


 













 
Chapter 8: The Tools of Narcissistic Brainwashing
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
Brainwashing is habitual for manipulators. We can think of brainwashing as a tool that allows the instigator to control the thoughts, perceptions, and actions of the target. Brainwashing also allows the target to be open to suggestions by the narcissist. Many individuals who become the victims of brainwashing already have a propensity towards suggestion or emotional manipulation. Still, brainwashing allows such individuals to really be the hapless pawns of the manipulator.
 


 
When we say that brainwashing allows the target's thoughts and perceptions to be controlled, we mean that the target comes to see events and even the world the way that the manipulator wants them to. If they want you to see yourself as fat and ugly, then you will see yourself as fat and ugly. If they want you to see yourself as unintelligent and unemployable, then you will see yourself in this fashion. If they want you to see all of your family members as dangerous people who are only trying to hurt you, then you will come to believe this point of view.
 


 
When we think of brainwashing, many examples come to mind. One of the most famous examples of expert brainwashing is the case of Grigorii Rasputin. Rasputin was a defrocked monk and mystic who was active in Russia shortly before the Russian Revolution. He was introduced to the Romanov imperial family by an associate close to Empress Alexandra, the wife of Tsar Nicholas II, ruled of Russia. The case of the Romanovs is an apt example of narcissistic brainwashing because it illustrates both the tools the narcissist uses and why certain individuals are susceptible to manipulation and brainwashing.
 


 
Nicholas and Alexandra's youngest child was the Tsarevich Alexei, who inherited the gene for hemophilia from Alexandra's family. Alexandra had inherited this gene from her grandmother, Queen Victoria of Great Britain, who belonged to a family that had a history of illness and mental instability. Alexei was the long-awaited heir to the throne, but he had an illness that made his young life fraught with danger. Hemophilia is a condition that impacts blood clotting, so any injury can cause internal bleeding that could lead to death.
 


 
By most accounts, Empress Alexandra was a neurotic and aloof character who held herself responsible for the predicament that her family was now in. The heir to the throne had an inherited condition that could lead to his death, or at least cause instability in the country because of the question of who would inherit the throne (Russia was an autocracy). When Alexandra heard of Rasputin, it must have seemed that all of her prayers were answers. Here was a man who could harness the mystical powers of the monks in the Orthodox Religion (supposedly) and heal her son. It was said that as soon as Rasputin laid his hands upon the boy, he began to appear healthier and more energetic.
 


 
But Rasputin was not merely interested in providing a service to the royal family. His healing powers, whatever their origin, became a tool that allowed him to wield influence over the Romanovs. It was said that he had a deciding role in which general was sent to what garrison and which minister received what government post. Government officials and ambassadors wrote much of his influence and lobbied his favors with gifts. Because Rasputin was from humble origins and had long believed that he deserved a higher station in life, it was said that he enjoyed the attention, influence, and favors that he now experienced.
 


 
It seems clear by the evidence that is left to us that Rasputin had narcissistic traits. He was vain, both somatically and cerebrally, grandiose, and had a desire for admiration. But this is more about the Romanov family than it is about Grigorii Rasputin. Why would the ruler of the largest country in the world allow a mystic with no government experience and a dubious reputation have influence across all levels of the government?
 


 
The key to answering this is understanding Empress Alexandra. She appears to be a sensitive, empathic person who was placed in the difficult situation of having to be consort in a country where she was not well-liked. Alexandra was reserved, conservative, and formal, forming a juxtaposition with the cosmopolitan, well-heeled, extravagant, and fun-loving Russian aristocracy. She was, therefore, an empath in a particularly vulnerable situation made even more vulnerable by the reality that when she finally did give the Tsar an heir, it was a child with an illness that was likely terminal.
 


 
Rasputin, therefore, was able to use his narcissistic tools on Alexandra. He brainwashed her into believing that he was indispensable to the imperial family. She believed that anything he wanted was a paltry favor in comparison to what she needed from him. Whatever reports about Rasputin reached her. They were ignored. She could do no wrong in his eyes. Any treatment that Alexandra or anyone else suggested for Alexei was a bad idea. Only Rasputin knew what was necessary to save the boy's life. The worldview of Alexandra and her family, therefore, came to be shaped by the influence of Rasputin, and they appeared to be clueless about how damaging this influence was.
 


 
 
 













 
The Idealization, Devaluation, Discard Phase
 


 
The narcissist, therefore, creates a world around them that is of their own making. It is an extension of their own consciousness and desires, just like the world of the infantile narcissist is an extension of their needs. The narcissist brainwashes others into believing in this world, not unlike how a good author is able to create an elaborate fiction that the reader buys into.
 


 
This brainwashing occurs throughout the phases of the narcissistic relationship. This type of manipulation is particularly evident in the idealization phase, as the narcissist brainwashes you into thinking that they are the ideal person that you were waiting for. They are your dreams come true and the answer to your prayers. This is brainwashing because, for one thing, this image is not true. Secondly, the narcissist creates this image of themselves only to allow them to control you later. Whenever you have doubts about the narcissist, you will always return to this idealized image that was formed at the early stages. The narcissist made an impeccable first impression, which is part of Brainwashing 101. Rasputin healed Tsarevich Alexei in a matter of minutes, which would always be an image that Alexandra and Nicholas returned to when they had their suspicions.
 


 
In the devalue and discard phase, the narcissist begins to reveal more of their true character. They engage in emotional and psychological abuse. They slowly chip away at your self-esteem until there is almost nothing left. They teach you to see themselves as superior and yourself as inferior. But because you have brainwashed, you are insensitive to their tactics and become like putty in their hands. Finally, the narcissist engages in the ultimate act of abuse: they discard you, after spending months building you up and tearing you down.
 


 
 
 













 
Gaslighting, Character Assassination
 


 
We have been exposed to gaslighting in prior chapters. Gaslighting is the ultimate tool of narcissistic brainwashing as it proves the extent to which they control your sense of reality. It takes a skilled manipulator to cause you to doubt your own sanity. The question becomes how the narcissist does this. They do this by establishing rapport with you, which causes you to trust not only them as a person and the things they tell you. They also are able to gaslight you by enlisting others in their schemes. They turn other people against you, one of the favorite tools of the vindictive narcissist.
 


 
Character assassination (or a smear campaign) is a powerful tool that is used by narcissists and other manipulators to turn members of social groupings against the victim. The narcissist knows that the more outrageous the story is, the more likely people are to believe it. They will build rapport with others only to feed them damaging information about you. The narcissist will do this after the discard phase - the destruction phase - and it is a way that they can do the ultimate harm to you and keep you close, like an injured bird. This is a form of brainwashing that does not involve you alone, but the others around you.
 


 
 
 













 
The False-self and the True-self
 


 
The false self and true self refer to the dual identities that exist in the narcissist. We have spoken indirectly of the false self. This is the distorted or archaic self that the narcissist creates. Although this is a part of their manipulation and mind control, the narcissist also believes in this false self because they are hopelessly out of touch with reality. So the narcissist will really believe that they are the best-looking, most charming person on the earth. Or they will be convinced that their sense of humor and intelligence can bring any woman (or man) to their knees.
 


 
The true self is the authentic, dysfunctional self of the narcissist. This is who they really are: a person who they may not know exists. You may become aware of this self, however. Indeed, when the narcissist's true self is revealed when they are criticized or their shortcomings are mentioned, the narcissist often reacts in a narcissistic rage. This narcissistic rage happens because of their inability to accept that their false self is, in fact, false, and that who they are is something not so impressive and is visible to others.
 


 













 
Chapter 9: Codependency in the Narcissistic Relationship
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Codependency is a controversial subject. In spite of the mountain of evidence in many different disorders and relationships supporting the existence of this condition, some psychologists question that it really exists. When it comes to narcissism, it is difficult to question the existence of codependency as this condition seems to pervade the relationships that the narcissistic person is involved in. Other psychologists have advocated that codependency be formalized in psychiatric diagnostic material. In particular, Timmen Cermak argued for a codependency diagnosis, not unlike dependent personality disorder.
 


 
Codependency is characterized by one individual enabling the mental illness, behavioral dysfunction, or addiction of another person. In codependency, one person's self-esteem is closely tied to the presence of another. The codependent person relies on the partner for validation and approval. Even their identity is dependent on the other person. This type of dynamic is easy to see in the narcissistic relationship as the partner of the narcissist enables the disordered thinking of the narcissist, seeming to require the narcissist as a relationship partner even in the face of abuse. By the same token, the narcissistic person feeds off of the admiration and subservience of their partner.
 


 
Indeed, codependency is arguably an essential feature of the narcissistic relationship as the partner of the narcissist confirms and supports the narcissist's false self. Even abuse serves a codependent function as it reinforces the superior-inferior relationship dynamic that keeps the partner of the narcissist in the relationship. Cermak suggested that the following criteria be used to make a diagnosis of codependent personality disorder:
 




 
Association of self-esteem with the need to control oneself and others, or suffer adverse results in consequence.
 


 
Assuming the responsibility of meeting the needs of others to the exclusion of one's own needs.
 


 
Cognitive distortions are surrounding separation and anxiety.
 


 
Investment in relationships with individuals that have personality disorders, substance abuse conditions, behavior problems, or are also codependent.
 


 
The presence of three or more of these traits:
 


 
Depression
 


 
Anxiety
 


 
Compulsions
 


 
Hypervigilance
 


 
Emotional constrictions
 


 
Excessive denial
 


 
Victim of physical or sexual abuse
 


 
In a relationship with substance abuser for two years are more
 


 
Medical problems related to stress
 




 
 
 













 
The Development of Codependency
 


 
The criteria for the proposed diagnosis of codependency clues you in as to what the etiology of this relationship pattern might be. Individuals who become codependent often have experienced being in physically or emotionally abusive relationships. Alternatively, they may have witnessed a relationship of this type during development. Children form patterns of what is and are not normal as they develop, and a child who witnesses a codependent relationship, or a relationship where there is abuse, will often grow up seeing this sort of relationship dynamic as normal.
 


 
Also, certain types of people are susceptible to being in codependent relationships based on personal qualities aside from experience. So individuals with depression, anxiety, emotional problems, hypersensitivity, and other related traits may be more likely to find themselves in a codependent relationship. This can happen because the codependent person seeks a certain type of partner or, in the case of the narcissistic relationship, they are sought out by the manipulator as prey of a sort.
 


 
An interesting side of the story to point out is that both partners in the relationship can be (and often are) codependent. It is not merely the partner of the narcissist that is codependent. Clearly, the narcissist, too, is codependent. Though it often lies below the surface, the narcissist relies on the admiration and subservience that they receive from their partner. This serves an essential purpose for their self-esteem. Indeed, when the partner fails to uphold their end of the bargain in this regard, narcissistic rage can result. The narcissist also uses various tactics, including abuse, to keep the partner in the relationship, even though the narcissist may imply or say outright that the partner does not deserve them.
 


 
Codependent people show signs of their codependency throughout the relationship. We have spoken of phases of the narcissistic relationship and abuse cycles within these relationships, but codependency is seen even earlier on. For example, the love-bombing of the narcissist and its efficacy relies on the codependent nature of the other person. When the narcissist love-bombs, they are giving the codependent person a form of approval that is necessary to them and their self-esteem. The partner, in turn, shows approval of the narcissist by not disagreeing with or challenging their grandiose and superior self.
 


 
 
 


 
Recovering from Codependency
 


 
This is a common theme in the subject of healing, but recovering from codependent relationships first requires an awareness of oneself and the behavior pattern one is engaging in. Because the codependent person has often experienced or witnessed the trauma of some sort (such as emotional or physical abuse), they develop disordered ideas of what a healthy relationship looks like, and they do not realize that their beliefs are incorrect. So, believe it or not, some people believe that it is normal for one partner to emotionally abuse another, even if they may not label it as such.
 


 
The first step then is for the codependent person to acknowledge that they have a dysfunctional idea about relationships, most likely stemming from problems in development. Two individuals may love another and derive mutual benefit from the presence of the other. Still, one's self-esteem and mental stability are not normally tied up in the presence or actions of another. If one's self-esteem is tied up in another person, or one requires another for admiration and approval, then this is codependence, and it is not normal.
 


 
The next step in recovering from codependence is to work towards a normal self-esteem pattern. One needs to find joy, satisfaction, and peace internally, without the need for anything from another. Thinking about what makes one happy and learning to be "okay" on one's own is important in this step. If you are not all right on your own, then you will always find yourself in relationships where you need someone to fill a need that you have. It is important that, on some level, you are able to meet most of your needs (emotional and otherwise) on your own.
 


 













 
Chapter 10: Signs That You Are in a Relationship with a Narcissist
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Because of codependency issues, it is not always obvious to the partner of the narcissist that they are in a relationship with this type of person. The partner may feel that it is normal to be treated in this way, or they may have subconsciously bought into the narcissist's notion of superiority. Therefore, understanding your own situation (and eventually coming to grips with it may involve simply keeping your eyes open for the right signs.
 


 
 
 













 
Major Warning Signs of a Narcissistic Relationship
 


 
As you will see shortly, the major warning signs of a narcissistic relationship are all related to the traits of the narcissist and their behaviors. The narcissist is vain, superior, entitled, lacking in empathy, and prone to abuse. The narcissist is also extremely manipulative, so they will have a knack for getting you to see things their way. Indeed, because the partner of the narcissist is often an empath, you may find that your emotions, viewpoints, and behaviors align with that of the narcissist to your own detriment. The following is a review of warning signs that you are dealing with a narcissist.
 


 
 
 


 
Sign One
 


 
You Recognize that You Are More Anxious or Depressed Than Is Typical for You
 


 
The abuse of the narcissist will impact you in various ways in the relationship. One of the ways that you may be affected is that you start feeling more depressed or anxious. This occurs because the belittling, demeaning, and manipulation of the narcissist causes you to lose self-esteem, making you depressed. You become anxious because the feelings that result from the interaction with this person cause you to fear these interactions, or even fear social interaction in general. Anxiety or depression of unknown cause is a telltale sign that you may have a narcissist in your life.
 


 
Sign Two
 


 
Your Partner Has a Pattern of Diminishing Your Achievements and Advancing Their Own
 


 
It is essential to the narcissist that they constantly remind you (as well as remind themselves) that you are less than they are, and one of the ways they do this is by minimizing your achievements. It is very damaging to the self-esteem of the narcissist when they are met with the realization that they are not superior to others. Therefore, they prevent this from happening in close interpersonal relationships by tearing down the achievements of others or not recognizing them. Their own achievements, however, will receive the attention the narcissist believes they deserve.
 


 
Sign Three
 


 
You Recognize that Your Self-esteem Is Not as High as It Was in The Past
 


 
One of the most challenging aspects of dealing with a narcissist is that other people are not always aware of the sort of person into whose midst they have fallen. One way to tell that your significant other is a narcissist is that your self-esteem takes a plummet. Your self-esteem plummets not only because of the words the narcissist uses to belittle and demean you, but because of behaviors, the narcissist engages in—like ignoring your needs—that serve as a constant reminder that you are not their equal.
 


 
Sign Four
 


 
You Are More Isolated from Others as a Result of Your Relationship
 


 
The narcissist will say and do things that drive a wedge between you and others. The narcissist may say that they are the only one who understands you, or that no one else cares about you as much as they do. How can the narcissist know this when they are not around for all of your actions? This is only a ploy used by the narcissist to control you. They want to be the only person of importance in your life, partly because they are codependent (as you may also be) and may require you to enable their mental illness, but also because they need someone to abuse.
 


 
Sign Five
 


 
You Are the Target of Episodes of Rage from Your Partner
 


 
Unexpected episodes of rage are common in narcissistic relationships. Freud and other psychoanalysts believed that aggression was an important motivation for the behaviors of the narcissist. It is true that the narcissist is motivated by a self-obsessive drive as well as an aggressive drive, but aggression can also stem from the narcissist not getting their way. The rage of the narcissist is not unlike a child throwing a temper tantrum when the parent does not give them what they want, or their needs are not met immediately. Although the narcissist is a calculating adult, they go into a rage for the same reason.
 


 
Sign Six
 


 
Although You Spend More Time with Your Partner than with Others, You Feel Neglected and Ignored
 


 
Even though you are a participant in a codependent relationship, you will often feel ignored and neglected by your partner. This is because the emotional connection that you need and would normally have in a healthy relationship is missing in the narcissistic relationship. Instead of giving you the love and support that you expect, the narcissist instead uses their closeness to you to wound you and lift themselves up at your experience. The things that are missing from your relationship will leave you feeling ignored.
 


 
Sign Seven
 


 
You Are Always Wrong, and Your Partner Is Always Right
 


 
The narcissist does not perceive you as being equal to them, and they will continuously remind you of this. One of the ways that they engage in this is to make sure you know that they are right, and you are not. They may use the word "always" to describe your behaviors negatively. You are always messing things up. Or your intuition is always wrong.
 


 
On the other hand, the narcissist's wants and perceptions are always right. In reality, this is not true. This is a type of mind control designed to place you deeper into the hold of the narcissist.
 


 
Sign Eight
 


 
You Frequently Experience Comments or Behaviors that Demean and Belittle You
 


 
Demeaning and belittling are the favored weapons of the narcissist. Belittling is a way or reminding you of your subservient position. This is part of the codependency of narcissism as it subconsciously tells you that you need the narcissist when, in reality, they need you perhaps more than you need them. Demeaning also serves a role here. It weakens you, allowing the narcissist to continue to influence you in various ways.
 


 
Sign Nine
 


 
You Experience Periods of Hurtfulness as Well as Acts of Charm or Love
 


 
The narcissist is not unlike the borderline person who can confuse those around them by frequently jumping back and forth between strong emotions like love and hate. The borderline person behaves this way because they have a mental illness stemming from dysfunctional development, but the narcissist does this because sometimes their mask of manipulation falls away, and you see them as they are. The signs of love that you receive from the narcissist are generally fake, designed to lure you into their control. The signs of dislike, anger, and hurtfulness represent the true self of the narcissist.
 


 
Sign Ten
 


 
You Feel Hollow at Times, and You Do Not Know Why
 


 
Hollowness is a strange feeling that individuals with severe depression or other mental illness sometimes experience. It is a feeling of emptiness or a sort of out of body sensation that can result from severe mental disturbance, trauma, or both. This can happen in the narcissistic relationship because of the abuse trauma that the partner of the narcissist is subjected to. Oftentimes building up your own self-esteem helps to resolve this feeling of being hollow. Other times, distancing yourself from the narcissist is the only solution.
 


 
Sign Eleven
 


 
You Notice that Your Partner Frequently Lies, Even When There Is No Obvious Benefit to Them of Their Lie
 


 
Narcissists are frequently pathological liars. Indeed, their entire persona is a lie. During the idealization phase, the narcissist convinced you that they were the answer to your prayers and that your life was better with them in it. This is the biggest lie of the narcissist. The narcissist will also lie in general conversation with you. They may do this to manipulate you, which happens commonly, or they may have no apparent reason for their lies. Lying has become a habit for them.
 


 
Sign Twelve
 


 
Nothing You Do Ever Seems to Meet The Demands of The Narcissist
 


 
Whatever you do, it will never be enough for the narcissist. This is because the narcissist has a self-image and world view in which they are special. You are not special, so you will always be a disappointment to the narcissist. You will never meet their demands, and they will remind you of this when they are not in the midst of trying to win you over.
 


 
Sign Thirteen
 


 
You Experience Emotional Ups And Downs that Are Unexpected and Exhausting
 


 
Being in a relationship with a narcissist can be akin to an emotional whirlwind. Aside from the anxiety and depression, the partner of this person can fall victim to frequent bouts of crying, panic attacks, and other symptoms of hypersensitivity and excessive emotionality. Although the narcissist often chooses people who are naturally like this as partners, any innate propensity you have for emotionality will be exacerbated by the damaging behaviors of the narcissist.
 


 
Sign Fourteen
 


 
Your Partner Always Manages to Reel You Back in When You Think You Have Had Enough
 


 
The narcissist has few peers when it comes to manipulation. Just when you have reached your breaking point and have made the decision to call it quits, the narcissist will find a way to throw the lasso around your waist and bring you right back. They are able to do this for a number of reasons, of which one of the more important ones is the false self (the idealized self) that they constructed at the beginning of the relationship and which you wholeheartedly believe in despite all evidence that it is indeed false.
 


 













 
Chapter 11: How to Raise Your Self-Esteem
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
The victims of narcissists are often chosen because they fit a particular character profile. We have discussed this profile in previous chapters, but it is important to revisit it here as it pinpoints those aspects that are important in raising self-esteem. Raising self-esteem is a critical part of the healing process, especially for codependent people who are at risk of falling prey to another narcissist after they have left the first one.
 


 
The narcissist is not haphazard when it comes to who to be involved with. The narcissist generally chooses people that are emotionally insecure, fragile, sensitive, empathic, and lacking in resilience. Individuals with these characteristics can be either women or men, and the narcissist knows just what signs to be on the lookout for to clue them in that you are this type of person. So, what does this mean for you once you have decided to take the step of freeing yourself from the narcissist's control? It means that you need to work towards being less insecure, less fragile, and more resilient. Building self-esteem is the best way that you can improve in all of these areas.
 


 
Self-esteem is your internal sense of self-worth. The problem with many codependent or emotionally insecure people is that they allow others to determine their self-worth. This is generally not a state that they have themselves to blame for. It is very common in our society for men and women to look to others to validate them. If others do not like them or do not value them, they feel unhappy. Although some desire for social acceptance is normal, people who are not able to function without it will be at higher risk for anxiety and depression, even leaving aside their predisposition towards codependent relationships.
 


 
 
 













 
Acceptance, Increase Awareness, Etc.
 


 
In this chapter, we will discuss some of the steps that can be taken towards building self-esteem. The goal of this is not only to protect you from narcissists in the future but to help you heal from the narcissistic abuse (and earlier trauma) that you have been subject to. Although there are many steps that can be undertaken to build up self-esteem, the following are areas of focus that are generally helpful:
 




 
Acceptance
 


 
Increase awareness
 


 
Detach with love
 


 
Changing reactions
 


 
Being assertive
 


 
Feed yourself
 


 
Become autonomous and take control
 




 
Many people who become involved with narcissists are not able to accept aspects of themselves that they are not entirely comfortable with. They look to others to give them the approval that they cannot give themselves. The problem is that the narcissist will never give you that sort of approval. You will have to accept yourself as you are, which may involve what is called radical acceptance. Take a long, hard look in the mirror (both the physical, external one, and the internal mirror) and learn to accept and love yourself for who you are.
 


 
Loving yourself involves getting to know yourself better. Increase your awareness of yourself, which is a crucial step towards learning to accept and eventually love yourself. Once you have accomplished this, it will be easier for you to detach yourself from others in a more natural way as you no longer require them to fill a need that you have. Your reactions to the events around you will also change as your low self-esteem no longer causes you to personalize, magnify, and catastrophize events.
 


 
Once you are able to approach interactions with self-esteem and a more normal sense of reality (with cognitive distortions), then you will be able to assert yourself more. Individuals with low self-esteem have difficulty doing this, which is why building up your sense of self-worth is so important. Feed yourself by remembering those things that make you "you." You have value as a person, and you do not need another person to validate you. Once you understand this kind of self-sufficiency, you will be able to function as a healthy, autonomous person and take control of your life.
 


 













 
Chapter 12: The Steps of Healing
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Healing from any kind of abuse does not happen overnight. This is especially true of narcissistic abuse, whose scars can remain years after the damage was done. Indeed, victims of this type of abuse suffer from low self-esteem and social isolation long after the narcissist has left their left. And to add insult to injury, such codependent individuals often continue to hold the narcissist in high esteem.
 


 
 
 













 
The Various Steps of the Healing Process
 


 
Because the effects of narcissistic abuse can linger, it is helpful to approach healing from this type of abuse in a stepwise fashion. This prevents you from being overwhelmed by the process of healing from your trauma. It also reduces the risk of you missing the mark completely. The steps of the healing process include:
 




 
Escaping
 


 
Becoming an individual
 


 
Breaking repetition
 


 
Meditation
 


 
Evolution of the true self
 


 
Recovery journal
 




 
 
 


 
Step 1: Escaping
 


 
The first step in healing from the narcissist is actually to escape from them. As long as you are in the narcissist's orbit, you will be susceptible to their emotional manipulation and abuse. This is particularly the case for emotionally sensitive, empathic people who were lured by the narcissist in the first place. Escaping from the narcissist involves breaking the trauma bond and safely leaving the relationship. This will often include enlisting the help of others. An important rule here is to maintain no contact with the narcissist.
 


 
Step 2: Becoming an Individual
 


 
We have spoken of the importance of building self-esteem. Working towards increasing your sense of self-worth is part of the process of becoming an individual. Becoming an individual also means doing things on your own and being comfortable with that. Codependent people can jump from relationship to relationship, but you need to become comfortable with being alone. Do not be so quick to find someone new after leaving the narcissist.
 


 
Step 3: Breaking Repetition
 


 
If you are the sort of person who attracts narcissists, then there can easily be another narcissist in your future. Being more confident and less codependent will help avert this, but there are other steps you can take to break the repetition. Now you know what narcissism is and what the signs are that indicate its presence. As soon as you come across a narcissist that is interested in you, put up your guard. Do not be fooled by the love-bombing and idealization.
 


 
Step 4: Meditation
 


 
Meditation is important because it helps give you a sense of inner calm. It also helps ground you in the present. People who are grounded in the present tend to be less anxious and depress. This serves the purpose of making you less susceptible to narcissist manipulation, and making it easier for you to leave should you meet a narcissist again. Meditation can take any form you like from religious chanting and body scanning to moments of silent repose during your day.
 


 
Step 5: Evolution of the True Self
 


 
The narcissist has a false self, but so do you. The self that you believe to be lesser than others is false as you have intrinsic self-worth by virtue of being an autonomous human being. By working these steps, your true self will grow and evolve.
 


 
Step 6: Keeping a Recovery Journal
 


 
Moments of self-reflection are important for you to process the events of your day and your interactions with others. But you want to do this without the rumination that leads to (and is a part of) anxiety. Keeping a recovery journal that you write in daily or more frequently as necessary helps you process the changes happening. Reviewing the events of your recovery journal will also serve to strengthen the evolution happening within you.
 


 













 
Frequently Asked Questions
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
1-
    
What is narcissism?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism refers to a behavior pattern characterized by vanity and a lack of empathy for others. Anyone can behave narcissistically, and it has been argued in psychology that narcissistic behavior happens naturally at certain stages in life. In fact, animals are naturally narcissistic; that is, they behave primarily based on self-interest rather than primarily thinking of others. Adaptively, it is important for individual creatures to behave this way in order to ensure their own survival.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism is, however, generally regarded as dysfunctional and even dangerous in humans. This is because of human beings’ natural experience emotional awareness and empathy, which allows them to form emotional connections with others and live in social groupings. Narcissism is believed to result from a distorted self that does not recognize the significance of other people. This is clear in narcissistic personality disorder, or NPD, in which the individual has traits and behaviors that reflect their lack of empathy for others.
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism can be categorized in different ways, but one of the significant categorical systems recognizes the following six types of narcissism:
 


 
 
 




 
Somatic Narcissism
 


 
Cerebral Narcissism
 


 
Overt Narcissism
 


 
Covert Narcissism
 


 
Seductive Narcissism
 


 
Vindictive Narcissism
 




 
 
 


 
2-
   
What is narcissistic personality disorder?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder, or NPD, is a psychiatric condition that encompasses the traits of people who exhibit vanity, lack of empathy, superiority, and other characteristics that are associated with narcissism. Narcissism is not automatically regarded as abnormal in psychology as there are instances in which such behavior is acceptable and adaptive, such as infantile narcissism and normal adult narcissism. Narcissistic personality disorder encompasses those aspects of narcissism that are harmful to others and which are not acceptable socially.
 


 
 
 


 
The diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder is made based on criteria listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). A diagnosis of NPD is made based on a history of enduring and consistent behaviors that are dysfunctional for the narcissist. Requiring an enduring pattern of behaviors permits episodic events of narcissism that may or may not be normal to be excluded.
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
3-
     
How is a diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder made?
 


 
 
 


 
The following symptoms needed for a diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder will be readily recognizable to those who deal with narcissists. The symptoms of NPD needed to make a diagnosis include:
 




 
Feelings of grandiosity in combination with an expectation of special regard and treatment by others
 


 
Self-concept of superiority, uniqueness, and higher status
 


 
A sense of entitlement, which leads the narcissist to expect and demand submission and subservience from others
 


 
A demand for admiration from others
 


 
Obsessive delusions of intelligence, power, special success, and great physical attractiveness
 


 
A propensity towards manipulation of others in order to accomplish their own desires and personal gain
 


 
A sense of envy of others combined with a perception that others are envious of them
 


 
A reluctance or incapacity to feel empathy for others
 


 
A tendency to belittle, demean, and bully others
 




 
 
 


 
4-
  
Are men and women with narcissistic personality disorder dangerous?
 


 
 
 


 
Because the narcissist has difficulty appreciating the value of others, they can engage in harmful and even deadly behaviors. Think of Sharon Stone's character in the film Basic Instinct. She had no problem manipulating the people around her to destroy each other because she saw others as little more than tools to be used to accomplish what she wanted or what benefited her. A narcissist may even manipulate and destroy others for no reason at all.
 


 
 
 


 
Indeed, it is this last aspect of narcissism that makes such people particularly dangerous. Although psychology has focused on misdirected libido as a significant cause of narcissism, psychologists have focused that the narcissist is also motivated by an aggressive impulse. This is distinct from the rage that narcissists display when they do not obtain what they want. The narcissist can behave aggressively entirely distinct from manipulation or a desire to punish. But the danger that comes from narcissists does not have to be related to aggression. The vindictive and seductive narcissists can hurt others because it is in their nature. The narcissist does not need a reason to maim.
 


 
 
 


 
5-
   
Who is narcissism named after?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissism has been described for centuries. It takes its name from a Greek mythological figure called Narcissus. Narcissus was a handsome youth who was so physically prepossessing that those around him were instantly interested and pursued him. A young woman called Echo fell in love with Narcissus, but the youth spurned her. The Narcissus myth implies that the youth was cruel and unjust in repudiating the interest of the girl.
 


 
 
 


 
In the Greek myth, Narcissus is punished for his vanity by being cursed by the goddess Nemesis to fall in love with his own reflection. Narcissus spies his reflection in a pool and is unable to pull himself away. He withers away into nothing, and the gods turn him into a flower: the narcissus or daffodil. Vanity is a key trait in the Narcissus myth, with the various storytellers of this myth, implying that such vanity naturally leads to harm.
 


 
 
 


 
6-
     
Are there signs that help men and women to recognize that they are in a relationship with a narcissist?
 


 
 
 


 
Fortunately for the victim of the narcissist, there are signs that you may be in a relationship with such a person. Some of these signs, like a sense of isolation or feeling hollow, maybe more subtle, though all serve as important clues that something is not right in the relationship. Some of the significant signs that help men and women realize that they are in this type of relationship include the following:
 




 
You recognize that you are more anxious or depressed than is typical for you
 


 
Your partner has a pattern of diminishing your achievements and advancing their own
 


 
You recognize that your self-esteem is not as high as it was in the past
 


 
You are more isolated from others as a result of your relationship
 


 
You are the target of episodes of rage from your partner
 


 
Although you spend more time with your partner than with others, you feel neglected and ignored
 


 
You are always wrong, and your partner is always right
 


 
You frequently experience comments or behaviors that demean and belittle you
 


 
You experience periods of hurtfulness as well as acts of charm or love
 


 
You feel hollow at times, and you do not know why
 


 
You notice that your partner frequently lies, even when there is no obvious benefit to them of their lie
 


 
Nothing you do ever seems to meet the demands of the narcissist
 


 
You experience emotional ups and downs that are unexpected and exhausting
 


 
Your partner always manages to reel you back in when you think you have had enough
 




 
 
 


 
7-
      
What is the dark triad of psychological disorders?
 


 
 
 


 
The dark triad refers to disorders or personality types that have been observed to bear similarities to one another both in the way the person thinks and acts, and the severity of harm that they can do to others. These conditions are regarded as representing the darker aspects of the human mind. These conditions involve engaging in highly-damaging, malicious acts for little or no reason. The dark triad of disorders includes Narcissism, Machiavellianism, and sociopathy (or psychopath).
 


 
 
 


 
The Machiavellian person is similar to the narcissist. This condition is named after Niccolò Machiavelli, who wrote about the qualities that a political leader should have during the period of the Italian Renaissance. He believed that cruelty and malicious acts were necessary to the politician, and they should not hesitate to act in this way. Like the narcissist, the Machiavellian type behaves in a wantonly cruel way. Still, they often do this decidedly rather than acting based on an underlying psychological motivation like the narcissist or the psychopath. Like the narcissist, a psychopath is a highly-destructive person, but one who often has no discernible reason for their calamitous acts. Sometimes a fourth condition is added to the dark triad, that of sadism. Sadism is named after the Marquis de Sade, a French nobleman who, in his behaviors and actions, expressed enjoying inflicting pain on others. Sadism is a type of paraphilia: a fetish or sexually-stimulating behavior.
 


 
 
 


 
8-
    
What are the Cluster B disorders, and why are they important?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic personality disorder, borderline personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, and antisocial personality disorder belong to a substratum of conditions in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual known as Cluster B conditions. These conditions have a special designation because they are regarded as similar etiologically and in the psychoanalytical approach. The borderline patient can confuse the emotions of love and hate and engage in acts of self-harm. The histrionic person has a flamboyant personality but is generally regarded as more harmless than the other three. The antisocial person is perhaps the most dangerous, engaging in acts that are designed to undermine and attack the institution of society.
 


 
 
 


 
The Cluster B disorders in the DSM are significant because medical professionals and psychologists approach them differently than they do other conditions. A clinician has to be on their guard and proceed with caution in these cases. Also, these conditions can overlap with it being possible for a single person to be diagnosed with several of these conditions. This designation is another way to perceive narcissistic personality disorder as existing together with related conditions.
 


 
 
 


 
9-
     
Why does narcissistic behavior happen?
 


 
 
 


 
Much writing has been undertaken on the subject of the causes of narcissistic behavior. Psychologists have not reached a consensus on why narcissism happens because psychologists are not entirely an agreement on how much of narcissism is normal and how much is dysfunctional. Some narcissism is healthy; psychologists argue because if men and women were not motivated by vanity and self-interest somewhat, they probably would not be motivated to do anything.
 


 
 
 


 
Indeed, a type of narcissism called primary infantile narcissism or juvenile narcissist involves the kind of behaviors typically seen in young children. Children at the toddler stage see themselves as being at the center of the world. They are not able to recognize that others have identities that are equivalent to their own. They see the people and things around them as objects whose purpose is to fulfill their wants. Typically, children grow out of this as a result of normal development and socialization. A narcissistic personality disorder may develop either because an adult regress to this infantile type of self-concept, or because they never developed past it.
 


 
 
 


 
10-
         
Why does narcissistic abuse occur?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic abuse, unfortunately, is a standard feature of narcissistic relationships. Narcissistic abuse happens because the narcissist lacks empathy, is superior and sees others as a tool to get what they need. Mistreatment in these types of relationships usually takes the form of emotional abuse as the narcissist is prone to belittle, demean, and bully others.
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissist may make comments that destroy the self-esteem of the other person or imply that the partner is less than the narcissist. The narcissist does this both because they are motivated to hurt and humiliate others, and because they are merely acting on their deep-seated belief that they truly are superior to others. Narcissistic abuse serves the dual purpose of keeping the other person in the relationship by weakening them, as well as enabling the distorted self of the narcissist.
 


 
 
 


 
11-
 
Is narcissistic behavior becoming more prevalent?
 


 
 
 


 
There has been some debate on the subject of whether narcissistic behavior is becoming more prevalent. It can certainly be argued that men and women in Western society appear to be moving towards increased vanity and materialism, but this does not necessarily equate with narcissism. As we have seen, vanity is an important part of narcissism, but it is only one of several traits associated with a personality disorder. Narcissists are also superior, entitled, lack empathy, and belittle others.
 


 
 
 


 
Therefore, if we are attempting to determine if societal narcissism is on the rise, we have to look at the other traits besides vanity. It does seem to be the case that men and women in Western society are becoming more entitled, superior, and perhaps are even showing a lack of empathy for others. Narcissistic traits are prevalent, but they are often episodic, representing an increased social acceptance for such behaviors. Since a diagnosis of the personality disorder requires an enduring, pervasive pattern of behaviors, the question of societal narcissism remains unanswered as this last is, and will continue to be, difficult to determine.
 


 
 
 


 
12-
 
How do I protect myself from manipulation by narcissists?
 


 
 
 


 
There are many steps that can be undertaken to protect oneself from narcissists. One of the most important steps is to recognize the signs and clues that one is dealing with a narcissist. Because there are many narcissists out there, one must also keep in mind that these signs can be seen in a partner or a family member, or a coworker or classmate. The narcissist does not discriminate in terms of who they choose to manipulate.
 


 
 
 


 
One of the significant signs of manipulation is noticing that you are engaging in actions that you do not want to do or seem contrary to your interests. The narcissist will manipulate, and mind control you to the degree that you learn to do what they wish to and abrogate your will to theirs. Another sign of manipulation is that you feel isolated. Because the narcissist uses more than just words to manipulate you, you have to learn not only how to recognize narcissists but learning their gestures and mannerisms. Learn to block or ignore gestures designed to establish rapport like touching your hand or arm or copying your movements. Because the narcissist flies away from the personal information that you give them, it is wise to be a little more guarded with people who are new, or you do not trust.
 


 
 
 


 
13-
 
Do narcissists engage in mind control?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists do engage in mind control. In fact, narcissistic mind control is not that different from the mind control engaged in by experts who have studied this art for years, even though the narcissist often develops these skills naturally. Much of narcissistic mind control comes from years of observing people and understanding how to get in their good graces, which is strange as the narcissist appears in many other ways to lack maturity or to be stunted in their intellectual development.
 


 
 
 


 
The mind control of the narcissist is designed to turn the other person into a willing plaything of the narcissist. The narcissist's self (or false self) sees others as tools to be used. Indeed, the psychological theory argues that the narcissistic mind does not truly recognize the selves of others at all. Mind control begins with establishing a connection with the other person. This is done by building rapport, love-bombing, and other strategies. Once the narcissist has convinced you to believe in their idealized self, you are now open to manipulation and control by them.
 


 
 
 


 
14-
         
Does real-life narcissism differ from the images we see on television and film?
 


 
 
 


 
Although some images of narcissists in the media do have some truth to them, real-life narcissists are a little more complicated. Indeed, the narcissists that we see in film, books, and other visual and print media often are very overt in their actions and motivations. It is usually obvious to the viewer or reader that this particular individual is dangerous, manipulative, and should not be trusted. Also, in film, in particular, narcissistic individuals often have elements of other personality disorders like borderline personality disorder or antisocial personality disorder.
 


 
 
 


 
If we go into the more controversial realms of psychology, we can also see elements of the dark triad in many narcissistic characters. Sharon Stone's character in Basic Instinct is a quick example of a narcissist who probably also has another personality disorder. Perhaps one of the better examples of a true narcissist (without the other conditions) is Charlize Theron's character in the film Young Adult. She is vain, entitled, delusional, harmful, and yet presents an attractive, normal-appearing exterior.
 


 
 
 


 
15-
 
   Is narcissistic personality disorder common?
 


 
 
 


 
It is estimated that narcissistic personality disorder is present between one and two percent of the population. This is a difficult statistic to estimate as most men and women with narcissistic personality disorder go undiagnosed and untreated. In fact, the narcissist lacks insight into their condition, so they are generally only diagnosed or treated when they happen to come to the attention of the psychiatrist for other reasons.
 


 
 
 


 
A psychologist may see the narcissist for relationship or marriage counseling. Or perhaps a narcissist is being seen by a psychiatrist for another condition, and the clinician realizes that they are dealing with a narcissist. Because the narcissist is often diagnosed accidentally or peripherally to something else, most people fall under the radar, free to harm those close to them in various ways.
 


 
 
 


 
16-
         
What is codependency, and what does it have to do with a narcissistic personality disorder?
 


 
 
 


 
Codependency is a condition in which one person enables the mental condition, addiction, or behavioral problem of another in a relationship. In codependency, one person requires another in order to have healthy self-esteem, and they may experience depression, anxiety, or other consequences if another person does not fill this role. Psychologists have argued whether or not codependency is actually a real thing. It is a notable feature of most narcissistic relationships with both the partner of the narcissist and the narcissist themselves being codependent.
 


 
 
 


 
Various traits of the partner (or family member) of the narcissist render them susceptible to codependency. Codependent people often have experienced physical or emotional abuse, or have witnessed it. Codependent people may be sensitive, hypervigilant, or have a mental illness of their own. Interestingly, in a narcissistic relationship, both the narcissist and their partner can be described as codependent as each party serves an essential role in the self-esteem of the other. A psychiatrist named Cermak came up with his criteria for a codependent personality disorder. They are as follows:
 




 
Association of self-esteem with the need to control oneself and others, or suffer adverse results in consequence.
 


 
Assuming the responsibility of meeting the needs of others to the exclusion of one's own needs.
 


 
Cognitive distortions are surrounding separation and anxiety.
 


 
Investment in relationships with individuals that have personality disorders, substance abuse conditions, behavior problems, or are also codependent.
 


 
The presence of three or more of these traits:
 


 
Depression
 


 
Anxiety
 


 
Compulsions
 


 
Hypervigilance
 


 
Emotional constrictions
 


 
Excessive denial
 


 
Victim of physical or sexual abuse
 


 
In a relationship with substance abuser for two years are more
 


 
Medical problems related to stress
 




 
 
 


 
17-
 
   What does narcissistic behavior look like in a relationship?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic behavior plays out in many different ways in a relationship. Perhaps the easiest way to categorize narcissistic behavior is to think about how it pops up in different phases of the relationship. In the early stages of the relationship, love-bombing and idealization occur. The narcissist uses these tools to lure and deceive the other person into investing in their false self - a self that is perfect, loving, and kind - and this self will be remembered at later stages of the relationship when things are not so ideal.
 


 
 
 


 
More obvious narcissistic behavior happens in the devalue phase of the relationship. During this phase, the narcissist will engage in words and actions that display how they truly feel about the other. In fact, devaluing the other person through belittling and demeaning words and deeds serve many purposes, including weakening the other person so as to keep them in the relationship. Abuse can happen at any time in the relationship, which will become obvious as the other person learns to recognize the signs.
 


 
 
 


 
18-
         
How does psychoanalysis approach narcissism?
 


 
 
 


 
Motivations are essential parts of psychoanalytical theory regarding narcissism. Sigmund Freud believed that humans were primarily motivated by libido, that is, sex drive, and that disorders in human behavior can be analyzed psychologically by focusing on where libidinous energy was being directed. This approach allowed Freud to develop theories about how precisely disorders like narcissism developed and might potentially be treated. In the case of narcissism, a Freudian approach would argue that libidinous energy, or sex drive, in the narcissist is misplaced internally (at the narcissist himself or herself) rather than externally, at others.
 


 
 
 


 
This Freudian idea is similar to the Ancient Greek idea, in which the youth Narcissus was transfixed by his own image and unnaturally spurned the advances of others. But Sigmund Freud’s theory on narcissism, in which this behavior pattern results from misdirected sexual energy, is not the only approach psychoanalysis has offered. Heinz Kohut, Alfred Adler, and Otto Kernberg all presented theories on narcissistic personality. Adler did not perceive human actions as being primarily driven by libido, but actions were instead what he called purposive. Humans were driven to engage in this or that because of a desire to accomplish a task, a theory that was integrated into his model of individual psychology. What this means in this personality type is that the narcissist is at least somewhat conscious of their actions and motivations rather than being driven solely by subconscious drives.
 


 
 
 


 
19-
         
What are Kernberg's three types of narcissism, and why are they important?
 


 
 
 


 
Otto Kernberg divided narcissism into three types. These types of narcissism incorporated Freudian theories on narcissism as well as offering some of Kernberg’s own beliefs. Kernberg divided narcissism into the following:
 


 
 
 




 
Normal adult narcissism
 


 
Normal infantile narcissism
 


 
Pathological narcissism
 




 
Kernberg, like Freud, saw pathological narcissism as stemming from libido directed not externally, but internally. Narcissistic personality disorder was one of the three types of pathological narcissism that Kernberg defined. The other two types were a regression to infantile-type self-esteem and the so-called narcissistic choice of object. Narcissistic personality disorder was regarded by Kernberg as the most severe though it was capable of being treated by psychotherapy. 
 


 
 
 


 
20-
       
What are the so-called deadly sins of narcissists?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissists exhibit personality traits and tendencies that are closely tied to the abusive behaviors that frequently impact others. Masterson and Hotchkiss were prominent psychiatrists in the United States who identified these “deadly sins,” helping to elucidate those aspects of narcissistic thinking that are sometimes elusive. Narcissists are shameless as they perceive themselves as being perfect and are unable to understand why they would need to change. In order to feel shame, the narcissist would need to approach their own behaviors and thought patterns objectively, which they are unable to do because they have pathological narcissism.
 


 
 
 


 
The narcissist is delusional, engaging in the second deadly sin of magical thinking in which they see a distorted relationship between events. Thirdly, a narcissist is arrogant, feeling a need to diminish others' standing as part of lifting themselves. Though it is not always obvious, the narcissist feels envy, feeling threatened by the accomplishments of others and therefore having a need to degrade them. The fifth deadly sin of narcissism is an entitlement, and this occurs because the narcissist feels that they possess a uniqueness that deserves special treatment. When the narcissist does not receive the special treatment, they think they deserve. They may be triggered into a narcissistic rage.
 


 
 
 


 
Manipulation is one of the better-known tools of the narcissist, representing the epitome of this person's belief that they are special, and others are merely tools to be moved about at will. The sixth deadly sin, exploitation, is related to this. The narcissist is said to exploit others through a combination of coercion and emotional manipulation that places the other person into a subservient position. A person in a subservient position is incapable of resisting the narcissist. The seven deadly sin of narcissism is a lack of boundaries – the so-called "bad boundaries" of the narcissist. The narcissist sees others as an extension of themselves because of their pathological belief that they are the center of the world. The narcissist, therefore, sees no boundary between self and other.
 


 
 
 


 
21-
 
   What is narcissistic rage?
 


 
 
 


 
Narcissistic rage is the name for the behavior of these individuals that happens after a narcissistic injury. Narcissists go into a narcissistic rage as a result of this particular type of injury. When the narcissist receives a blow to their sense of self-worth, they become angry. This can manifest ways ranging from aloofness and irritation to a harmful physical attack. The argument has been made that narcissistic rage happens when the true self of the narcissist has been revealed to others. The narcissist has constructed a false self that they portray to others. This is a delusional self that they have constructed and convinced others to invest in. When the person the narcissist really is, is revealed—with all its scars and shortcomings—the narcissist can go into this type of dangerous rage.
 


 
 
 


 
22-
        
What is gaslighting, and why does it occur in narcissistic relationships?
 


 
 
 


 
Gaslighting represents the unique ability of the narcissist to exert control over those around him or her, leading the target to doubt that they understand the distinctions between fantasy and reality. In gaslighting, the narcissist causes the target to question their sanity. The narcissist is capable of doing this because of their aptitude in constructing a false reality that others believe in. The narcissist convinces you that they are superior, and they are inferior when they are really not. This is in itself a false reality the narcissist has constructed.
 


 
 
 


 
Indeed, the narcissist's entire self is a false reality. It may be a false self that results from childhood dysfunction or trauma, or it may be an archaic self that did not disappear during growth (which it normally should). Narcissists can gaslight anyone they come into contact with, but it frequently occurs in narcissistic relationships because of the hold that the narcissist has on their partner. There are too many examples of gaslighting to list them all, but some signs that you are being gaslighted include:
 




 
Feeling excessive doubts that you cannot control or explain
 


 
Feeling that the narcissist knows more than you do about everything (even about yourself)
 


 
Feeling that your sense of normal has changed
 


 
Feeling excessive paranoia without a clear cause
 


 
Becoming silent and withdrawn
 


 
Feeling hypersensitive and hypervigilant in your normal environment
 




 
 
 


 
 
 


 
23-
        
What is hoover, and what role does it play in the abuse cycle?
 


 
 
 


 
Hoover is the phase of the abuse cycle that happens after destroying. Once the narcissist has discarded you and turned people against you, perhaps convincing your family and friends that you were the wrong party in the relationship, they will hoover. Keep a tie to their victim can be important to the narcissist. This tie permits them to continue to harm you from a distance, as they may not be done. This tie also serves to enable the narcissist's grandiose "self" by having a target to abuse and demean to make themselves feel better. 
 


 
 
 


 
24-
        
What do the terms false self and true self refer to in the context of narcissism?
 


 
 
 


 
The false self and true self refer to the dual natures of the narcissist. The false self is the archaic or distorted self that the narcissist creates or which has been held over from earlier life. The narcissist believes in this false self because they are hopelessly out of touch with reality. That being said, they also use this false self to control and manipulate people. The true self is who the narcissist really is. They try to hide this true self because they cannot face that it actually exists. If the narcissist's true self is revealed in any way, they may react with narcissistic rage.
 


 













 
Conclusion
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
Many people who attempt to break free from the hold of narcissists fail. They fail because such people neglect to recognize those aspects of themselves that lead them to fall prey to narcissists. We can talk about the false self that the narcissist builds and how they manipulate others. Still, if we do not address how emotionally sensitive and empathic people tend to enable the dysfunction of the narcissist, then we trap the narcissist's target in an unbreakable cycle that they will carry with them from relationship to relationship.
 


 
Narcissists are vain, entitled, grandiose, have a need for admiration, and lack empathy. They have a knack for bullying, belittling, and demeaning others. But narcissists are also master manipulators. They are expert illusionists who pull off the greatest magic trick of all: convincing you that they are perfect and that you need them. The narcissist is far from perfect. In fact, as you gain awareness, you may realize that you have as much, or more, to offer than they do.
 


 
Narcissism refers to a series of traits that are encapsulated in the psychiatric diagnosis of narcissistic personality disorder or NPD. I diagnosis of this condition requires a pervasive, enduring pattern of behaviors that reflect the vanity and callousness of the narcissist. Narcissists generally lack insight into their condition because they have a distorted sense of self. This self can either be an archaic self that never matured past a childish, egotistical state, or it can be an adult self that reverted back to an archaic narcissistic pattern.
 


 
There are several other conditions that overlap with narcissism. In the DSM of psychiatric practice, a narcissistic personality disorder is grouped together with a borderline personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, and antisocial personality disorder in a series of conditions known as Cluster B disorders. These personality disorders are regarded in psychoanalysis as having somewhat similar motivations and are generally approached with psychotherapy. Narcissism is also grouped with a number of other dangerous conditions that are known as the "dark triad" or dark personality traits. These conditions are usually listed as narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy, and some also include sadism for a total of four dark disorders. These disorders represent the dark motivations of mankind honed to a remarkable degree.
 


 
Narcissistic abuse was initially coined to describe the mental abuse that narcissistic parents engaged in with their children. We now think of narcissistic abuse as the emotional abuse that narcissists inflict on those around them. This type of abuse includes bullying and belittling, as well as emotional manipulation. Gaslighting is a type of emotional manipulation in which the target begins to doubt their own sanity. The narcissist often enlists others to help them harm others.
 


 
Indeed, one of the most damaging aspects of narcissistic abuse is the isolation that can result from it. Isolation serves several purposes for the narcissist. Isolation weakens the target, which makes them more vulnerable to the work of the narcissist. Isolation also serves the purpose of keeping the target in the narcissistic relationship, which the narcissist wants because they are codependent.
 


 
Codependency refers to a relationship pattern in which a person requires another person for their self-esteem and identity. In a codependent relationship, one person enables the mental illness, substance abuse, or dysfunction of the other person. The target of the narcissist is codependent, which is why they remain in the relationship with the narcissist. But the narcissist, too, is codependent. The narcissist needs the subordinate partner in the relationship to enable their false self, which sees the narcissist as superior in every way and entitled to special treatment.
 


 
For this reason, building self-esteem is one of the most important steps in healing from narcissistic abuse. Building self-esteem helps the narcissist's target to break free from the hold of codependency and manipulation. Self-esteem building also protects the individual from falling prey to another individual of this type in the future. As the victim of the narcissist gains confident, they will develop an autonomous sense of self that will continue to grow and evolve. Such an evolved self is likely to recognize the traits of the narcissist immediately and be protected from falling victim to their ploys.
 


 
 
 


 
 


 





