





PENGUIN	BOOKS


GETTING	THINGS	DONE


David	Allen	has	been	called	one	of	the	world’s	most	influential	thinkers	on productivity	and	has	been	a	keynote	speaker	and	facilitator	for	such organizations	as	New	York	Life,	the	World	Bank,	the	Ford	Foundation,	L.L. 


Bean,	and	the	U.S.	Navy,	and	he	conducts	workshops	for	individuals	and organizations	across	the	country.	He	is	the	chairman	of	the	David	Allen Company	and	has	more	than	thirty-five	years	of	experience	as	a	management consultant	and	executive	coach.	His	work	has	been	featured	in	 
Fast	Company
, 
Fortune
,	the	 
Los	Angeles	Times
,	the	 
New	York	Times
,	the	 
Wall	Street	Journal
, and	many	other	publications.  
Getting	Things	Done
	has	been	published	in	more than	thirty	foreign	countries.	Allen	lives	in	Amsterdam,	Netherlands. 


Praise	for	the	First	Edition	of	 
Getting	Things	Done


“The	Season’s	Best	Reads	for	Work-Life	Advice	.	.	.	my	favorite	on	organizing your	life:	 
Getting	Things	Done
	.	.	.	offers	help	building	the	new	mental	skills needed	in	an	age	of	multitasking	and	overload.” 


—Sue	Shellenbarger,  
The	Wall	Street	Journal


“I	recently	attended	David’s	seminar	on	getting	organized,	and	after	seeing	him in	action	I	have	hope.	.	.	.	David	Allen’s	seminar	was	an	eye-opener.” 


—Stewart	Alsop,  
Fortune


“Allen	drops	down	from	high-level	philosophizing	to	the	fine	details	of	time management.	Take	a	minute	to	check	this	one	out.” 


—Mark	Henricks,  
Entrepreneur


“David	Allen’s	productivity	principles	are	rooted	in	big	ideas	.	.	.	but	they’re also	eminently	practical.” 


—Keith	H.	Hammonds,  
Fast	Company


“David	Allen	brings	new	clarity	to	the	power	of	purpose,	the	essential	nature	of relaxation,	and	deceptively	simple	guidelines	for	getting	things	done.	He employs	extensive	experience,	personal	stories,	and	his	own	recipe	for simplicity,	speed,	and	fun.” 


—Frances	Hesselbein,	chairman,	board	of	governors,	Leader	to	Leader Institute


“Anyone	who	reads	this	book	can	apply	this	knowledge	and	these	skills	in	their lives	for	immediate	results.” 


—Stephen	P.	Magee,	chaired	professor	of	business	and	economics, 


University	of	Texas	at	Austin


“A	true	skeptic	of	most	management	fixes,	I	have	to	say	David’s	program	is	a winner!” 


—Joline	Godfrey,	CEO,	Independent	Means,	Inc.,	and	author	of	 
Our
 
Wildest	Dreams


“
Getting	Things	Done
	describes	an	incredibly	practical	process	that	can	help busy	people	regain	control	of	their	lives.	It	can	help	you	be	more	successful. 


Even	more	important,	it	can	help	you	have	a	happier	life!” 


—Marshall	Goldsmith,	coeditor,  
The	Leader	of	the	Future	
 and 
Coaching	for	Leadership


“WARNING:	Reading	 
Getting	Things	Done
	can	be	hazardous	to	your	old	habits of	procrastination.	David	Allen’s	approach	is	refreshingly	simple	and	intuitive. 


He	provides	the	systems,	tools,	and	tips	to	achieve	profound	results.” 


—Carola	Endicott,	director,	Quality	Resources,	New	England	Medical Center






PENGUIN	BOOKS


Published	by	the	Penguin	Group


Penguin	Group	(USA)	LLC


375	Hudson	Street


New	York,	New	York	10014


USA	|	Canada	|	UK	|	Ireland	|	Australia	|	New	Zealand	|	India	|	South	Africa	|	China


penguin.com


A	Penguin	Random	House	Company


First	published	in	the	United	States	of	America	by	Viking	Penguin,	a	member	of	Penguin	Putnam	Inc.,	2001


Published	in	Penguin	Books	2003


This	revised	edition	with	a	foreword	by	James	Fallows	published	2015


Copyright	©	2001,	2015	by	David	Allen


Foreword	copyright	©	2015	by	James	Fallows


Penguin	supports	copyright.	Copyright	fuels	creativity,	encourages	diverse	voices,	promotes	free	speech, and	creates	a	vibrant	culture.	Thank	you	for	buying	an	authorized	edition	of	this	book	and	for	complying with	copyright	laws	by	not	reproducing,	scanning,	or	distributing	any	part	of	it	in	any	form	without permission.	You	are	supporting	writers	and	allowing	Penguin	to	continue	to	publish	books	for	every	reader. 


ISBN	978-0-698-16186-3


Cover	design:	Jason	Ramirez


Cover	photograph	courtesy	of	the	author


Version_1


Contents


About	the	Author


Praise	for	David	Allen


Title	Page


Copyright


Acknowledgments


Foreword	by	James	Fallows


Introduction	to	the	Revised	Edition


Welcome	to	 
Getting	Things	Done


Part	1:	The	Art	of	Getting	Things	Done


 
Chapter	1
	A	New	Practice	for	a	New	Reality


 
Chapter	2	
 Getting	Control	of	Your	Life:	The	Five	Steps	of	Mastering


Workflow


 
Chapter	3
	Getting	Projects	Creatively	Under	Way:	The	Five	Phases	of	Project


Planning


Part	2:	Practicing	Stress-Free	Productivity


 
Chapter	4
	Getting	Started:	Setting	Up	the	Time,	Space,	and	Tools


 
Chapter	5
	Capturing:	Corralling	Your	“Stuff” 


 
Chapter	6
	Clarifying:	Getting	“In”	to	Empty


 
Chapter	7
	Organizing:	Setting	Up	the	Right	Buckets


 
Chapter	8
	Reflecting:	Keeping	It	All	Fresh	and	Functional


 
Chapter	9
	Engaging:	Making	the	Best	Action	Choices


 
Chapter	10
	Getting	Projects	Under	Control


Part	3:	The	Power	of	the	Key	Principles


 
Chapter	11
	The	Power	of	the	Capturing	Habit


 
Chapter	12
	The	Power	of	the	Next-Action	Decision


 
Chapter	13
	The	Power	of	Outcome	Focusing


 
Chapter	14
	GTD	and	Cognitive	Science


 
Chapter	15
	The	Path	of	GTD	Mastery


Conclusion


Appendix:	Glossary	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
	Terms


Index


For	Kathryn,	my	extraordinary	partner	in	life	and	work


Acknowledgments


So	many	mentors,	partners,	colleagues,	staff,	clients,	friends,	and	adopters	of	the 
Getting	Things	Done
	methodology	around	the	world	over	the	past	decades	have contributed	to	my	understanding	and	development	of	these	principles	that singling	out	particular	individuals	to	thank	here	is	both	necessary	and	unfair.	So, my	gratitude	and	apologies	go	to	the	many	unnamed	but	still	highly	deserving	in that	group	(and	you	know	who	you	are!). 


 
It’s	not	what	we	have	in	our	life,	but	who	we	have	in	our	life,	that	counts. 


 
—J.	M.	Laurence


In	the	early	1980s	Dean	Acheson	and	Russell	Bishop	provided	me	initial frameworks	that	seeded	my	awareness	of	the	powerful	methodology	that	was	to become	known	around	the	world	as	 
GTD. 
	Of	the	innumerable	partners	and colleagues	who	have	added	to	this	body	of	work	and	its	distribution	over	the years,	I	must	give	special	thanks	to	Marian	Bateman,	Meg	Edwards,	Ana	Maria Gonzalez,	Anne	Gennett,	Leslie	Boyer,	Kelly	Forrister,	John	Forrister,	Wayne Pepper,	Frank	Sopper,	Maggie	Weiss,	and	Mike	Williams. 


In	addition,	many	thousands	of	clients	and	workshop	participants	have	helped validate	and	fine-tune	these	models.	Particular	thanks	go	to	the	senior	human resource	strategists	who	in	the	early	years	of	this	work	recognized	the significance	of	this	material	in	bringing	needed	change	to	their	corporate cultures,	and	who	gave	me	the	opportunity	to	do	that—in	particular:	Michael Winston,	Ben	Cannon,	Kevin	Wilde,	Susan	Valaskovic,	Patricia	Carlyle,	Manny Berger,	Carola	Endicott,	Klara	Sztucinski,	and	Elliott	Kellman. 


This	book	could	not	have	happened	the	way	it	has	without	the	unique energies	and	perspectives	of	Tom	Hagan,	John	and	Laura	McBride,	Steve Lewers,	Greg	Stikeleather,	Sam	Spurlin,	and	my	indefatigable	agent,	Doe


Coover.	And	much	credit	is	due	both	the	editor	of	the	first	edition,	Janet Goldstein,	and	my	subsequent	editor	of	this	new	version,	Rick	Kot,	both	of whom	have	provided	marvelous	(and	patient)	instruction	in	the	art	and	craft	of book	writing. 


Finally,	deepest	thanks	go	to	my	spiritual	coach,	J-R,	for	being	such	an awesome	guide	and	consistent	reminder	of	my	real	priorities;	and	to	my	wife, Kathryn,	for	her	trust,	love,	supportive	hard	work,	companionship,	and	the multiple	forms	of	beauty	she	has	brought	into	my	life. 


Foreword


BOOK	CATALOGS	ARE	
full	of	listings	for	volumes	that	offer	advice	on	how	to	improve your	work	habits,	your	health,	your	productivity,	and	your	overall	success	in	life. 


Some	of	what	they	say	is	typically	dressed-up	common	sense.	A	fraction	of	it is	baloney.	Much	of	it	is	worth	reading	one	time,	if	that,	and	is	forgettable	hours or	days	after	you	have	put	the	book	down. 


This	book	is	different.	It	has	sold	steadily,	in	large	numbers,	since	its	first appearance,	and	the	audience	for	David	Allen’s	programs	and	philosophies	has grown	in	size	and	international	reach.	Speaking	for	myself,	I	can	say	that	this	is a	book	I	read	carefully	when	the	original	version	came	out,	that	I	have	revisited every	year	or	two	since	then,	and	that	I	was	very	glad	to	learn	was	coming	out	in the	updated	and	revised	version	you	are	reading	now. 


What	makes	 
Getting	Things	Done
	different?	In	ascending	order	of importance,	I	would	list	these	three	qualities,	each	evident	in	nearly	every chapter. 


One	is	its	practicality,	by	which	I	really	mean	its	modular	and	forgiving approach.	Many	self-improvement	schemes	work	from	an	all-or-nothing, 


“everything	must	be	different,	starting	tomorrow”	premise.	If	you	want	to	lose forty	pounds,	take	control	of	your	financial	destiny,	straighten	out	your	family, or	have	the	career	of	your	dreams,	you	have	to	embrace	a	radical	top-to-bottom change	in	every	aspect	of	your	life. 


Occasionally	people	do	make	these	radical	leaps:	in	programs	for	sobriety,	in commitments	to	new	diet-and-exercise	plans	after	serious	health	scares,	or	even going	into	the	monastery	after	a	life	in	the	business	world.	But	for	most	people, most	of	the	time,	approaches	that	are	incremental	and	forgiving	of	error	are	more likely	to	pay	off	in	the	long	run.	That	way,	if	there	is	one	part	of	the	approach you	forget	or	fall	behind	in,	you	don’t	have	to	abandon	all	the	rest. 


David	Allen’s	ambitions	for	his	readers	are	in	a	sense	even	grander	than those	of	most	other	books.	His	goal	is	nothing	less	than	helping	people	remove stress	and	anxiety	from	their	work	and	personal	lives,	so	they	can	match	every


moment	of	their	existence	to	the	purposes	they	would	most	like	to	pursue.	Yet with	a	very	few	exceptions—for	instance,	his	sensible	insistence	on	developing	a


“capture”	habit,	so	that	you	are	sure	to	write	down	or	otherwise	record	every commitment	you	make	or	obligation	you	accept	rather	than	torture	yourself trying	to	remember	them	all,	and	the	related	insistence	on	having	one	central, trusted	repository	where	you	keep	such	data—a	great	advantage	of	his	system	is its	modular	nature.	This	book	is	full	of	advice	that	works	better	if	embraced	in	its totality	but	is	still	useful	when	applied	piece	by	piece. 


For	instance:	If	you	haven’t	gone	all	the	way	with	David	Allen’s	GTD


system,	you	can	still	find	value	in	his	“two-minute	rule”	for	disposing	of obligations	 
now
	rather	than	putting	them	off.	(From	chapter	6,	the	two-minute rule:	“If	an	action	will	take	less	than	two	minutes,	it	should	be	done	at	the moment	it’s	defined.”)	Or	his	emphasis,	explained	throughout	the	book,	on relying	on	an	“external	brain”—that	is,	tools	that	can	do	routine	categorizing	and remembering	for	us,	from	simple	folders	in	which	to	store	receipts	to	established places	in	which	you	will	 
always
	put	keys,	glasses,	or	other	things	you	don’t	want to	hunt	for	each	time. 


This	is	advice	from	a	man	who	clearly	understands	that	people	are	busy	and fallible.	He	is	writing	to	offer	them	additional	helpful	tips,	rather	than	to	give them	extra	reasons	to	feel	guilty	or	inadequate.	The	book	is	also	written	with	an understanding	that	life	consists	of	cycles.	Things	go	better,	and	then	get	worse. 


At	some	points	we	fall	behind;	at	others,	we	catch	up,	or	try	to.	When	episodes occur,	as	they	will	for	anyone,	in	which	we	are	overwhelmed	or	unable	to	cope, the	book	suggests	achievable	day-by-day	steps	toward	regaining	a	calm	sense	of control. 


A	second	virtue	of	the	book	is	its	open-ended	adaptability.	Through	the decades	since	David	Allen	first	began	conceiving	his	approach	to	work	and	life, some	practical	aspects	of	personal	organization	have	remained	constant.	There are	only	so	many	hours	per	day,	even	as	we	push	back	the	frontiers	of sleeplessness.	There	are	only	so	many	people	with	whom	we	can	maintain serious	connections,	only	so	many	things	we	can	do	at	a	time.	Yet	other	aspects of	the	working	life	have	changed	radically.	When	the	first	edition	of	this	book came	out,	e-mail	was	still	an	exciting	new	technology	rather	than	a	limitlessly guilt-inducing	source	of	work	still	to	be	done.	One	of	David	Allen’s	first technological	projects	was	a	program	called	“Actioneer,”	a	task-management system	for	the	early	PalmPilot.	Now	the	Palm	company	and	its	once-revolutionary	Pilot	are	gone;	iPhone	and	Android	smartphones	have	taken	its


place;	and	others	now	unimagined	are	sure	to	follow. 


In	this	new	edition	of	the	book	as	with	its	predecessor,	David	Allen	is	fully conversant	with	the	technology	of	the	moment.	But	unlike	other	management books	that	are	closely	tied	to	hardware	or	software	of	an	era—Filofaxes	in	the 1980s,	spreadsheets	or	PowerPoint	decks	more	recently— 
Getting	Things	Done
 refers	to	but	does	not	depend	on	any	specific	external	systems.	David	Allen	has updated	the	advice	in	this	book	to	reflect	what	is	different	in	modern	technology and	also	(in	fascinating	detail)	what	modern	brain	science	has	revealed.	But	his outlook	is	always	tied	to	timeless	principles	of	how	people	manage	their attention,	emotions,	and	creativity.	If	this	book	is	still	being	read	a	dozen	years or	more	from	now,	as	I	think	it	will	be,	people	in	that	era	will	be	able	to	skip	past the	inevitably	outdated	references	to	technology	to	recognize	the	still-relevant insights	into	human	nature. 


Third	is	a	quality	I	have	come	to	appreciate	firsthand,	as	I	have	gotten	to know	David	Allen	and	his	wife	Kathryn	as	friends,	and	that	I	think	other	people must	have	intuited	from	David’s	work	without	ever	meeting	him.	That	is	the wholeness	and	authenticity	in	David	Allen’s	recommendations,	the	connection between	the	person	and	the	message	he	is	delivering. 


As	I	learned	when	writing	a	profile	of	David	Allen	for	the	 
Atlantic
	in	2004, he	has	had	a	wide	variety	of	careers	and	levels-of-luck	in	life.	He	has	been	a schoolboy	actor,	a	debating	champion,	a	karate	practitioner	and	teacher,	a	waiter and	a	taxi	driver	and	a	manager	of	a	lawn-service	agency—and	all	of	this	before his	decades	of	success	as	a	consultant	and	productivity	adviser.	Echoes	from	that range	of	experience	come	through	in	David	Allen’s	advice,	and	his	manner,	not only	in	the	real-world	examples	he	can	cite	but	also	in	his	quite	notable	lack	of self-importance. 


There	are	times	when	we	overlook	the	personal	traits	of	a	creator	when assessing	the	importance	of	his	or	her	work.	For	instance:	by	all	accounts	Steve Jobs	was	more	admirable	as	a	design	pioneer	than	as	a	model	of	personal conduct.	In	other	cases,	the	integral	connection	of	a	person’s	life	and	thought add	to	the	power	of	that	person’s	message.	I	can	attest	from	personal	experience with	David	and	Kathryn	Allen	something	that	many	readers	might	guess	and most	would	hope:	that	he	is	doing	his	best	to	be	honest	about	what	he	has learned	from	life. 


Some	people	will	think	they	don’t	“need”	this	book,	and	in	a	literal	sense	that is	obviously	true.	Around	the	world	and	through	the	eons	many	people	have	led successful	and	satisfying	lives	in	total	ignorance	of	the	“Getting	Things	Done” 


approach.	But	most	people	I	know	who	have	read	this	book	have	benefitted	from the	time	they’ve	taken	to	absorb	its	messages	and	their	implications.	Two	of	my tests	for	a	book	are	whether	I	remember	it	a	month	or	two	after	I	have	read	it, and	whether	it	affects	my	view	of	the	world.	By	both	tests	 
Getting	Things	Done
 is,	for	me,	a	success.	I	am	glad	it	is	being	introduced	to	a	new	generation	of readers. 


—James	Fallows


James	Fallows	is	a	national	correspondent	for	the	 
Atlantic
	magazine	and	author of	ten	books,	most	recently	 
China	Airborne
.	He	first	wrote	about	David	Allen	in a	2004	article	for	the	 
Atlantic
	called	“Organize	Your	Life!” 


Introduction	to	the	Revised	Edition


WHAT	FOLLOWS	IS	
a	total	rewrite	of	the	first	edition	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
, originally	published	in	2001—well,	a	 
sort
	of	rewrite.	I	actually	retyped	the original	manuscript,	start	to	finish,	with	the	goal	of	identifying	and	revising content	and	language	that	was	either	incomplete,	outdated,	or	otherwise	not optimal	for	keeping	the	book	functional	as	a	continuing	and	“evergreen”	manual, one	that	would	be	useful	globally	and	remain	relevant	and	applicable	for	the twenty-first	century	and	even	beyond.	I	also	wanted	to	incorporate	the	most significant	and	interesting	things	I’ve	seen	and	learned	about	the	methodology that	 
Getting	Things	Done	
 introduced	as	I’ve	continued	to	be	involved	with	it,	in myriad	ways,	since	the	book’s	first	publication.	That	includes	my	own	deeper understanding	of	its	power,	subtlety,	and	range	of	application,	as	well	as	how	it has	been	received	as	awareness	of	it	has	spread	around	the	world. 


What	 
didn’t
	need	to	change	as	I	reassessed	the	book	were	its	fundamental principles	and	core	techniques.	As	I	crafted	this	new	edition,	reacquainting myself	with	what	I	wrote	then	was	a	gratifying	acknowledgment	that	the principles	of	stress-free	productivity	I	described	and	even	most	of	the	best practices	of	how	to	apply	them	haven’t	wavered,	nor	will	they,	in	the	foreseeable future.	In	order	for	a	space	exploration	team	to	land	on	Jupiter	in	2109,	they	will have	to	employ	the	same	principles	for	maintaining	control	and	focus	as	anyone does	today.	They’ll	still	need	some	version	of	an	in-tray	(explained	later)	to capture	potentially	meaningful	inputs	they	didn’t	expect,	in	order	to	trust	their choices	about	what	to	focus	on	during	their	first	excursion.	And	next-action decision	making	will	always	be	critical	for	successful	execution	of	any	task, whatever	its	scope. 


Because	many	elements	of	the	way	we	live	and	work	 
have
	changed	since	the first	edition,	though,	I’ve	made	appropriate	recalibrations	in	the	fundamental material	and	will	share	my	thoughts	here	about	things	that	I	consider	new	and interesting	in	this	arena,	offering	relevant	advice	to	both	those	new	to	this methodology	and	the	GT
D*	
aficionados	who	may	be	reading	this	edition	and


want	to	keep	abreast	of	the	latest	developments	concerning	it. 


What’s	New


Here	are	some	of	the	key	areas	in	the	“what’s	new”	category	that	have influenced	my	revision:


The	Rise	of	Digital	Technology


The	continuing	manifestation	of	Moore’s	Law	(digital	processing	power increasing	exponentially	over	time),	along	with	the	social	and	cultural ramifications	of	the	expansion	of	the	digital	world	into	our	daily	lives,	never fails	to	surprise,	delight,	and	overwhelm	us.	Because	 
Getting	Things	Done
	deals primarily	with	the	 
content
	and	 
meaning
	of	what	we	need	to	manage,	irrespective of	how	it	shows	up	or	gets	organized—whether	in	digital	form	or	on	paper—


advances	in	technology	are	to	some	degree	irrelevant	to	the	essence	of	its methodology.	An	e-mail	request	means	essentially	the	same	thing	and	has	to	be processed	the	same	way	as	a	favor	asked	of	you	at	the	coffee	machine. 


But	the	wired/wireless	world	has	both	enhanced	and	exacerbated	how	we	can apply	the	core	practices	of	capturing,	organizing,	and	accessing	what’s meaningful.	While	we	now	have	access	to	lots	of	supertools	and	apps	that	show up	on	an	almost	daily	basis	and	do	really	great	stuff,	that	plethora	of	options	can easily	blow	our	productivity	fuses.	Staying	on	top	of	and	leveraging	ever-evolving	technologies	adds	significant	pressure	to	getting	one’s	appropriate workflow	methodology	right. 


I’ve	accordingly	changed	some	of	my	earlier	emphases	on	types	of	tools	that are	best	suited	to	particular	tasks	and	acknowledged	the	ubiquity	of	our	new digital	and	mobile	world.	I’ve	also	eliminated	most	of	my	references	to	specific software	applications	that	appeared	in	the	first	edition.	The	rate	of	innovation	in this	area	means	that	any	specific	software	program	can	easily	be	outdated, upgraded,	or	undermined	by	the	next	new	thing	by	the	time	you	read	about	it. 


I’ve	essentially	hopped	out	of	that	fray,	opting	instead	to	provide	a	general model	for	how	to	evaluate	the	usefulness	of	 
any
	tool. 


For	this	edition	I	grappled	with	how	much	attention	to	continue	to	devote	to paper-based	tools	and	materials	(especially	for	capturing,	reference	filing,	and


incubating),	as	many	in	the	younger	generations	have	come	to	believe	they	don’t have	to	deal	with	paper	at	all.	At	the	risk	of	dating	myself,	I	decided	to	leave most	of	those	instructions	from	the	first	edition	intact	here,	as	many	of	the potential	readers	of	this	new	edition	around	the	world	will	still	be	at	least partially	paper	based.	Ironically,	there	is	a	growing	resurgence	of	interest	in	the use	of	paper	among	the	most	sophisticatedly	digital. 
*	
Time	will	tell	whether	we can	ever	truly	get	rid	of	that	in-your-hand,	in-your-face	medium. 


The	24-7	World


Nothing	is	new,	except	how	frequently	it	is. 


I’m	often	asked	what	new	advice	GTD	can	offer	to	the	mobile,	connected,	and always-on	world. 


The	necessity	of	dealing	with	frequent	and	complex	barrages	of	potentially significant	data	was	probably	true	in	the	past	for	remarkable	individuals	such	as Napoleon	as	he	marched	through	Europe,	or	Bach	as	he	composed,	or	even Andy	Warhol	as	he	decided	what	to	paint	or	show	in	a	gallery.	Now,	though,	the entire	world’s	digitally	connected	literate	population	is	the	recipient	of	an explosion	of	nonstop,	potentially	“important”—or	at	least	relevant—


information.	The	ease	with	which	it	can	be	accessed	through	technology	has made	it	simultaneously	rewarding	in	its	opportunities	and	treacherous	in	its volume,	speed,	and	changeability.	If	you	are	by	nature	fascinated	by	what	may be	going	on	when	you	hear	sirens	in	your	neighborhood	or	wonder	what	a	group of	people	across	the	room	at	a	party	is	excitedly	talking	about,	then	you	are	ripe for	becoming	a	victim	of	the	endless	and	powerful	distractions	your	personal technology	dishes	out	to	you.	Whether	your	experience	with	it	is	ultimately positive	or	negative	depends	primarily	on	the	application	of	the	practices	in	this book. 


The	Globalization	of	GTD	Methodology


Anyone	with	the	need	to	be	accountable	to	deal	with	more	than	what	he	or	she	can	complete	in the	moment	has	the	opportunity	to	do	so	more	easily	and	elegantly	than	in	the	mind. 


I’m	often	asked	if	the	GTD	process	can	translate	into	other	cultures,	and	my answer	has	always	been	a	resounding,	“Of	course.”	The	core	message	of	the book	is	so	inherently	relevant	to	the	human	condition	that	I’ve	yet	to	experience any	cultural	bias—nor	frankly	any	gender,	age,	or	personality-type	differentials


—in	the	applicability	of	the	methodology.	The	awareness	of	the	need	for	it	and what	purposes	it	will	serve	will,	of	course,	be	different	for	each	individual.	But that	is	more	a	function	of	one’s	station	in	life,	the	nature	of	one’s	work,	and one’s	interest	in	self-improvement	than	it	is	any	of	the	other	factors.	In	actual practice	you	will	potentially	have	more	in	common	with	many	hundreds	of thousands	of	people	around	the	world	in	your	resonance	with	GTD	than	you	will with	your	next-door	neighbor	or	even	your	cousin	Rafael! 


Since	its	initial	publication,	awareness	of	the	 
Getting	Things	Done	
 message has	spread	worldwide.	The	first	edition	has	been	translated	into	more	than	thirty languages,	and	our	company	has	established	franchises	in	many	countries	to provide	training	programs	based	on	its	content.	While	I	was	relatively	confident about	the	cross-cultural	coherence	of	this	methodology	when	I	wrote	the	book, the	ensuing	years	have	simply	validated	that	confidence,	in	spades. 


An	Approach	That	Is	More	Inclusive	of	a	Larger	Population	of	Readers	and
 
Users


The	primary	impetus	for	my	writing	 
Getting	Things	Done
	was	to	craft	a	manual for	the	methodology	that	I	had	formulated,	tested,	and	implemented,	mostly	in the	corporate	training	and	development	world.	In	its	examples,	style,	look,	and feel	(I	wore	a	tie	on	the	cover!),	the	book	was	initially	and	principally	addressed to	managers,	executives,	and	higher-level,	fast-track	professionals.	While	I already	knew	that	the	material	could	be	equally	valuable	for	homemakers, students,	clergy,	artists,	and	even	retirees,	it	was	professionals	who	at	that	time were	the	most	aware	of	the	need	for	the	kind	of	help	I	was	seeking	to	provide,	as a	means	both	to	advance	their	own	development	and	productivity	as	well	as	to stay	sane	in	the	process.	They	were	at	the	front	lines,	the	advance	guard,	in engaging	with	the	impending	flood	of	information	and	rapid	and	significant


change	the	business	world	was	experiencing,	and	also	had	access	to	resources	to tackle	these	issues. 


 
Getting	Things	Done
	is	not	simply	about	getting	things	done.	It’s	about	being	appropriately engaged	with	your	work	and	life. 


Today	there	is	a	much	more	universal	interest	in	the	results	that	can	be achieved	with	relaxed,	focused	control,	and	the	realization	that	it	is	not	just	a one-shot	recipe	of	“time	management”	tips	simply	for	business	professionals, but	in	fact	a	lifestyle	practice,	necessary	to	deal	with	the	new	world	most	all	of us	are	experiencing.	I	regularly	receive	testimonials	from	a	diversity	of	people around	the	world	in	an	infinite	variety	of	situations	about	the	life-changing	value they	have	experienced	applying	GTD	principles.	This	validation	of	the	growing need	across	the	planet	for	such	a	model	has	inspired	me	to	reframe	many	of	my examples	and	the	focus	of	that	text	to	support	it. 


From	that	perspective	I	have	to	acknowledge	that	even	the	title	of	this	book can	be	somewhat	misleading,	giving	many	the	impression	that	I	am	somehow advocating	working	harder	and	longer	to	get	 
more	
 done.  
Productivity
, unfortunately,	does	have	connotations	of	both	business	and	busy-ness.	In	truth, this	book	is	not	so	much	concerned	with	getting	things	done	as	it	is	championing 
appropriate	engagement
 
with	your	world
—guiding	you	to	make	the	best	choice of	what	to	do	in	each	moment,	and	to	eliminate	distraction	and	stress	about	what you’re	 
not
	doing.	The	resulting	clarity	and	psychological	space	can	benefit	a much	broader	range	of	people	than	simply	professionals	on	a	corporate	career track. 


Some	of	the	most	interesting	endorsements	of	the	value	of	applying	the 
Getting	Things	Done
	principles	and	techniques	have	come	from	unexpected quarters.	The	head	of	the	world’s	largest	finance	organization,	a	popular American	comedian,	the	most	listened-to	U.S.	radio	personality,	the	CEO	of	a major	European	conglomerate,	one	of	the	most	successful	Hollywood	directors


—all	have	attributed	huge	benefits	in	their	life	and	work	to	GTD.	Feedback	from the	clergy	of	many	different	religions	has	also	been	fascinating.	While	they’re responsible	for	handling	otherworldly	matters,	they’ve	been	starved	for	ways	to focus	 
more
	in	that	realm	with	their	flocks	by	freeing	themselves	of	the distractions	of	the	day-to-day	business	aspects	of	leading	a	congregation. 


Students,	designers,	doctors—the	list	of	self-identified	GTD	advocates	is


endless. 


Over	the	years	I’ve	discovered	that	we’re	all	in	this	game	together;	it’s	now great	to	have	the	opportunity	to	frame	an	outreach	to	encompass	the	full	breadth of	GTD	users. 


A	Greater	Awareness	of	the	Time	and	Energy	Required	for	the	Full
 
Implementation	of	the	GTD	Process,	and	the	Behavioral	Changes	Required
 
to	Maintain	It


Alas!	As	easy	as	it	is	to	actually	 
do
	what	I	suggest	as	best	practices	in	this	book, I	have	been	rudely	awakened	to	these	two	phenomena:	(1)	the	amount	of information	and	suggested	activities	here	can	easily	be	perceived	as	too overwhelming	for	someone	to	even	begin	to	implement	them;	and	(2)	making some	of	the	fundamental	practices	habitual	can	take	quite	a	while	for	most people. 


 
Everything	in	life	worth	achieving	requires	practice.	In	fact,	life	itself	is	nothing	more	than	one
 
long	practice	session,	an	endless	effort	of	refining	our	motions.	When	the	proper	mechanics	of
 
practicing	are	understood,	the	task	of	learning	something	new	becomes	a	stress-free	experience
 
of	joy	and	calmness,	a	process	which	settles	all	areas	in	your	life	and	promotes	proper
 
perspective	on	all	of	life’s	difficulties. 


 
—Thomas	Sterner


Because	I	have	continued	to	resist	“dumbing	down”	this	model	and	its details,	I’m	not	sure	I	can	ever	overcome	the	objection	of	“too	much	to	absorb.” 


The	first	edition	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
	included	detailed	instructions	and recommendations	about	how	to	fully	implement	its	methodology	in	your	life	and work—and	I	have	retained	them	here.	I	now	know	that	for	many	who	are	new	to this	game,	this	will	seem	more	than	comfortable	or	possible	to	incorporate	all	at once.	But	I	cannot	with	integrity	hold	back	the	instructions	about	how	to	really integrate	this	method	into	your	everyday	life,	if	you	want	to	“go	for	it.” 


If	you	were	interested	in	learning	to	play	tennis,	I	wouldn’t	want	to	hold	back at	least	a	blueprint	of	the	game,	including	a	vision	of	excellence	and	the	levels	of learning	and	practice	involved	to	get	there.	In	the	newly	added	chapter	15,	I’ve sought	to	illuminate	the	depth	and	breadth	of	the	game	I’m	introducing,	and	to


make	it	more	comfortable	for	you	to	take	what	you	can	and	will	from	what	you read	and	make	it	OK	for	you	to	simply	glean	and	implement	whatever	you	might from	it,	for	now.	I	have	attempted	in	this	version	of	the	book	to	add	more graciousness	to	respect	the	potentially	daunting	task	of	rearranging	your	personal practices	and	systems.	It’s	really	all	about	one	step	at	a	time. 


In	every	case,	however,	a	key	challenge	is	applying	and	sustaining	these practices	as	an	ongoing	set	of	habits,	to	the	point	that	they	will	require	the minimal	application	of	conscious	focus,	or	“juice,”	and	merely	become	an everyday	part	of	keeping	one’s	mental	and	physical	environment	in	good	order.	I cannot	pretend	to	be	an	expert	in	how	to	change	one’s	habits—I’ve	been	much more	invested	in	figuring	out	and	refining	the	practices	of	stress-free productivity. 
*	
The	behavioral	ingredients	of	GTD	are	actually	relatively	simple and	familiar	to	everyone.	How	hard	is	it	to	write	something	down,	decide	what the	next	step	is	to	move	it	forward,	record	the	reminder	of	that	on	a	list,	and review	the	list?	Most	everyone	admits	he	or	she	needs	to	establish	a	practice	like this,	and	few	do	it	consistently	enough	to	feel	good	about	it.	How	challenging	it is	for	someone	to	internalize	the	need	to	consistently	keep	 
every
	unnecessary distraction	out	of	his	or	her	head	has	been	one	of	my	biggest	surprises	over	the years. 


Information	from	Cognitive	Science	Research	That	Has	Validated	the
 
Efficacy	of	the	GTD	Methodology


 
For	whatever	deserves	to	exist	deserves	also	to	be	known,	for	knowledge	is	the	image	of
 
existence;	and	things	mean	and	splendid	exist	alike. 


 
—Francis	Bacon


I	no	longer	feel	as	much	like	“a	voice,	crying	in	the	wilderness”	as	I	did	at	the turn	of	the	century,	for	since	then	scientific	data	has	emerged	validating	the principles	and	practices	prescribed	in	this	book.	The	new	chapter	14	here	(“GTD


and	Cognitive	Science”)	features	an	examination	of	some	of	this	research. 


If	You	Are	New	to	This	.	.	. 


.	.	.	and	if	you’ve	gotten	this	far	in	this	Introduction,	you’re	probably	interested in	jumping	in	at	some	level	of	engagement.	I’ve	structured	 
Getting	Things	Done
 as	a	practical	manual—much	like	a	cookbook	that	frames	the	basic	principles, presents	many	layers	of	what	cooking	and	serving	a	meal	is	all	about,	and	gives enough	specific	recipes	to	enable	you	to	make	an	infinite	number	of	future dinners.	If	I’ve	done	a	decent	job	in	crafting	this	new	edition,	you	can	just	start at	the	next	chapter	and	take	it	from	there,	as	you	feel	so	moved.	GTD	principles, as	they	are	laid	out	in	the	book,	have	been	verified	by	many	as	a	powerful experience	to	work	through	and	apply.	Or	you	can	simply	jump	around—skim the	text,	randomly	dive	into	a	paragraph	or	two.	The	book	has	been	written	to serve	you	in	that	way	as	well. 


If	You	Already	Have	Some	 
Getting	Things	Done


Experience	.	.	. 


.	.	.	this	will	still	be	a	new	book.	Over	the	many	years	that	this	information	has been	available	in	multiple	forms,	whenever	anyone	loops	back	through	the material,	they	invariably	have	a	response	like,	“Oh	my	God,	this	is	totally different	information	and	perspective	than	I	could	recognize	and	absorb	when	I read	it	earlier.”	Even	people	who	have	reread	the	original	edition	of	GTD	as many	as	five	times	have	professed	to	me,	“It	was	a	totally	different	book	each time!”	The	experience	is	very	much	like	reading	a	software	manual	a	year	later, after	you’ve	gotten	the	basics	on	“cruise	control.”	You’ll	be	amazed	and enthused	about	all	the	cool	stuff	you	realize	you	could	be	(and	could	have	been) doing,	right	at	your	fingertips,	but	that	you	couldn’t	recognize	and	implement, given	the	other	major	issues	that	needed	to	be	addressed	to	set	things	up. 


No	matter	when	or	how	many	times	you	might	have	read	an	earlier	version	of 
Getting	Things	Done
,	or	participated	in	any	of	the	seminars,	coaching,	webinars, podcasts,	or	other	presentations	of	this	material,	you	will	experience	a	novel	and absorbing	level	of	engagement	in	this	revised	edition.	I	promise	you	that.	What will	open	up	in	the	following	pages	is	a	new	universe	of	ideas	to	incorporate, within	the	structure	and	tools	you	likely	already	have	in	place. 


Engaging	with	this	book	and	the	information	within	it	will	consistently provide	a	positive	and	productive	mind-set	about	the	aspects	of	your	life	and work	that	genuinely	matter. 


Welcome	to	 
Getting	Things	Done


WELCOME	TO	A	
gold	mine	of	insights	into	strategies	for	how	to	have	more	energy, be	more	relaxed,	with	more	clarity	and	presence	in	the	moment	with	whatever you’re	doing,	and	get	a	lot	more	accomplished	with	much	less	effort.	If	you’re like	me,	you	like	getting	things	done	and	doing	them	well,	and	yet	you	also	want to	savor	life	in	ways	that	seem	increasingly	elusive,	if	not	downright	impossible, if	you’re	working	too	hard.	This	doesn’t	have	to	be	an	either-or	proposition.	It	 
is
 possible	to	be	effectively	 
doing
	while	you	are	delightfully	 
being
,	in	your ordinary	workaday	world. 


 
The	art	of	resting	the	mind	and	the	power	of	dismissing	from	it	all	care	and	worry	is	probably
 
one	of	the	secrets	of	our	great	men. 


 
—Capt.	J.	A.	Hatfield


I	think	efficiency	is	a	good	thing.	Maybe	what	you’re	doing	is	important, interesting,	or	useful;	or	maybe	it	isn’t	but	it	has	to	be	done	anyway.	In	the	first case	you	want	to	get	as	much	return	as	you	can	on	your	investment	of	time	and energy.	In	the	second,	you	want	to	get	on	to	other	things	as	fast	as	you	can, without	any	nagging	loose	ends. 


And	whatever	you’re	doing,	you’d	probably	like	to	be	more	relaxed, confident	that	whatever	you’re	doing	at	the	moment	is	just	what	you	need	to	be doing—that	having	a	beer	with	your	staff	after	hours,	gazing	at	your	sleeping child	in	his	or	her	crib	at	midnight,	answering	the	e-mail	in	front	of	you,	or spending	a	few	informal	minutes	with	the	potential	new	client	after	the	meeting is	exactly	what	you	 
ought
	to	be	doing,	as	you’re	doing	it. 


Teaching	you	how	to	be	maximally	efficient	and	relaxed,	whenever	you	need or	want	to	be,	was	my	main	purpose	in	writing	this	book.	And	after	many	years of	sharing	this	information	and	set	of	best	practices	around	the	world,	in	the


most	varied	environments	and	with	the	widest	range	of	people	of	all	types	and ages,	I	can	unequivocally	attest:	it	works. 


How	do	you	know	that	what	you’re	doing	is	what	you	ought	to	be	doing	at any	point	in	time?	No	software,	seminar,	cool	notebook,	smartphone,	or	even personal	mission	statement	will	give	you	more	than	twenty-four	hours	in	a	day, simplify	its	content,	or	make	this	often	tough	choice	for	you. 


 
As	to	methods	there	may	be	a	million	and	then	some,	but	principles	are	few.	The	man	who
 
grasps	principles	can	successfully	select	his	own	methods.	The	man	who	tries	methods,	ignoring
 
principles,	is	sure	to	have	trouble. 


 
—Ralph	Waldo	Emerson


Used	appropriately,	those	kinds	of	tools	can	provide	support	for	your decisions,	but	they	don’t	in	and	of	themselves	get	you	in	control	and	focused. 


What’s	more,	just	when	you	learn	how	to	enhance	your	productivity	at	one	level, you’ll	graduate	or	be	forced	to	the	next	accepted	batch	of	responsibilities	and creative	goals,	whose	new	challenges	will	defy	the	ability	of	any	simple	formula, buzzword	du	jour,	or	new	digital	mobile	device	to	get	you	back	“on	your	game” 


for	your	next	stage	in	work	and	life.	You	may	have	established	personal	habits and	tools	that	work	for	a	while,	but	a	major	change,	such	as	a	big	shift	in	your job,	a	first	baby,	or	buying	a	home,	will	test	their	sustainability	and	likely	create serious	discomfort	(if	not	havoc!). 


But	if	there’s	no	single	technique	or	tool	for	perfecting	organization	and productivity,	there	 
are
	very	specific	things	we	do	to	facilitate	them.	Over	the years	I’ve	uncovered	simple	processes	that	we	can	all	learn	to	use	that	will	vastly improve	our	ability	to	deal	proactively	and	constructively	with	the	mundane realities	of	the	world,	while	still	feeling	connected	to	our	more	meaningful priorities.	And	those	practices	have	proven	to	be	viable	universally	across	time. 


They	apply	if	you’re	trying	to	manage	your	homework	at	age	twelve	and	if	you need	to	regroup	about	your	corporation’s	strategies	after	your	last	board meeting	.	.	.	and	to	everything	in	between. 


 
Anxiety	is	caused	by	a	lack	of	control,	organization,	preparation,	and	action. 


 
—David	Kekich


What	follows	is	a	compilation	of	more	than	three	decades’	worth	of discoveries	about	personal	and	organizational	productivity—a	guide	to maximizing	output	and	minimizing	input,	and	to	doing	so	in	a	world	in	which work	is	increasingly	voluminous,	ever	shifting,	and	ambiguous.	I	(and	many colleagues)	have	spent	hundreds	of	thousands	of	hours	coaching	some	of	the brightest	and	busiest	people	you	can	imagine,	“in	the	trenches”	at	their	desks,	in their	homes	with	their	doors	closed,	helping	them	capture,	clarify,	and	organize all	of	their	work	and	commitments	at	hand.	The	methods	I	have	uncovered	have proved	to	be	highly	effective	in	all	types	of	organizations,	at	every	job	level, across	cultures,	and	even	at	home	and	school.	After	years	of	coaching	and training	some	of	the	most	sophisticated	and	productive	professionals	(along	with their	kids!),	I	know	the	world	is	hungry	for	these	methods. 


Executives	at	the	top	are	looking	to	instill	a	standard	of	ruthless	execution	in themselves,	their	staffs,	and	their	cultures,	as	well	as	how	to	keep	their	personal lives	appropriately	in	balance	and	in	play.	They	know,	and	I	know,	that	behind closed	doors,	after	hours,	there	remain	unanswered	calls,	tasks	to	be	delegated, unprocessed	issues	from	meetings	and	conversations,	senior-level accountabilities	not	yet	clarified	and	under	control,	personal	responsibilities unmanaged,	and	dozens	of	potentially	important	e-mails	amid	their	hundreds	(or even	thousands)	still	not	dealt	with.	Many	of	these	businesspeople	are	successful because	the	crises	they	resolve	and	the	opportunities	they	take	advantage	of	are bigger	than	the	problems	they	allow	and	create	in	their	own	offices,	homes,	and briefcases.	But	given	the	pace	of	business	and	life	today,	the	equation	is	often	in question. 


And,	more	critically	for	many,	people	are	not	paying	appropriate	attention	to their	kids’	school	plays,	sports	games,	or	going-to-bed	questions	about	life,	or they’re	simply	not	able	to	“be	here	now,”	anywhere,	anytime.	An	ambient	angst pervades	our	society—there’s	a	sense	that	somehow	there’s	probably	something we	should	be	doing	that	we’re	not,	which	creates	a	tension	for	which	there	is	no resolution	and	from	which	there	is	no	rest. 


On	the	one	hand,	we	need	proven	tools	that	can	help	people	focus	their energies	strategically	and	tactically	without	letting	anything	fall	through	the cracks.	On	the	other,	we	need	to	create	thinking	habits	and	working environments	that	will	keep	the	most	caring	and	engaged	people	from	burning out	due	to	stress.	We	need	positive	work	and	lifestyle	standards	that	will	attract and	retain	the	best	and	brightest	in	our	organizations,	and	we	need	personal	and home	practices	that	foster	clarity,	control,	and	creativity	for	those	we	love	and, 


most	important,	for	ourselves. 


We	know	this	information	is	sorely	needed	in	organizations.	It’s	also	needed in	schools,	where	the	vast	majority	of	our	kids	are	still	not	being	taught	how	to process	information,	how	to	focus	on	outcomes,	or	what	actions	to	take	to	make them	happen.	And	for	all	of	us	individually,	it’s	needed	so	we	can	take advantage	of	all	the	opportunities	we’re	given	to	add	value	to	our	world	in	a sustainable,	self-nurturing	way. 


•	•	•	


The	power,	simplicity,	and	effectiveness	of	what	I’ll	be	presenting	here	is	best experienced	as	an	experience,	in	real	time,	with	situations	in	your	real	world.	As you	read	or	skim	the	book,	you	will	no	doubt	be	motivated	to	think	about	how you	would	and	could	implement	what	I’ll	be	talking	about.	You’ll	be	greatly served	by	actually	doing	what	you	read	about,	as	it	occurs.	That	will	take	your understanding	to	a	much	deeper	and	more	significant	level.	You’ll	find	it	useful to	understand	the	models;	you’ll	likely	find	it	transformational	to	apply	them. 


Healthy	skepticism	is	often	the	best	way	to	glean	the	value	of	what’s	being	presented—


challenge	it;	prove	it	wrong,	if	you	can.	That	creates	engagement,	which	is	the	key	to understanding. 


Necessarily,	the	book	must	put	the	essence	of	this	dynamic	art	of	workflow management	and	personal	productivity	into	a	linear	format.	I’ve	tried	to	organize it	in	such	a	way	as	to	give	you	both	the	inspiring	big-picture	view	and	a	taste	of immediate	results	as	you	go	along. 


The	book	is	divided	into	three	parts.	Part	1	describes	the	whole	game, providing	a	brief	overview	of	the	system	and	an	explanation	of	why	it’s	unique and	timely,	and	then	presenting	the	basic	methodologies	themselves	in	their	most condensed	and	basic	form.	Part	2	shows	you	how	to	implement	the	system.	It’s your	personal	coaching,	step	by	step,	on	the	nitty-gritty	application	of	the models.	Part	3	goes	even	deeper,	describing	the	subtler	and	more	profound results	you	can	expect	when	you	incorporate	the	methodologies	and	models	into your	work	and	your	life. 


There	will	be	inevitable	repetition	in	the	content,	in	the	three	parts.	The	core methodology	is	relatively	simple,	but	it	can	be	expressed	and	understood	at


many	different	levels	of	depth	and	detail	through	the	various	lenses	and	lessons here. 


I	want	you	to	hop	in,	test	this	stuff	out,	even	challenge	it.	I	want	you	to	find out	for	yourself	that	what	I	promise	is	not	only	possible	but	instantly	accessible to	you	personally.	And	I	want	you	to	know	that	everything	I	propose	is	 
easy	to
 
do
.	It	involves	no	new	skills	at	all.	You	already	know	how	to	focus,	how	to	write things	down,	how	to	decide	outcomes	and	actions,	and	how	to	review	options and	make	choices.	You’ll	validate	that	many	of	the	things	you’ve	been	doing instinctively	and	intuitively	all	along	are	right.	I’ll	give	you	ways	to	leverage those	basic	skills	into	new	plateaus	of	effectiveness.	I	want	to	inspire	you	to	put all	this	into	a	new	behavior	set	that	will	blow	your	mind. 


From	time	to	time	in	the	book	I	refer	to	my	work	with	people	applying	this material.	I’ve	been	a	management	consultant,	executive	coach,	and	trainer	for the	past	three	decades—alone,	in	small	partnerships,	and	as	founder	of	a	global training	company.	My	work	has	consisted	primarily	of	doing	private	coaching, conducting	workshops,	and	giving	presentations	based	on	the	methods	presented here.	I	(and	my	colleagues)	have	now	worked	with	thousands	of	people individually	and	trained	hundreds	of	thousands	in	our	in-house	and	public seminars	around	the	world.	We	continue	to	engage	with	some	of	the	best	and brightest	people	all	over	the	world.	This	is	the	background	from	which	I	have drawn	my	experience	and	examples. 


I	am	a	fellow	student.	I	throw	myself	out	of	control	and	lose	my	focus,	along with	the	rest	and	best	of	us.	I	equally	must	engage	regularly	with	the	practices	I describe	here,	to	keep	myself	clear	with	an	optimal	presence	of	mind.	As	I	have described	in	chapter	15,	this	is	a	set	of	lifelong	lifestyle	habits	that	must	be applied	to	engage	in	the	world	at	more	elevated	and	mature	levels.	I	don’t	share anything	in	this	book	I	have	not	personally	experienced	and	tested	for	its	validity and	that	I	don’t	continue	to	use	in	some	form. 


The	promise	here	was	well	described	by	a	client	of	mine,	who	wrote,	“When I	habitually	applied	the	tenets	of	this	program	it	 
saved
	my	life	.	.	.	when	I faithfully	applied	them,	it	 
changed	
 my	life.	This	is	the	vaccination	against	day-to-day	firefighting	(the	so-called	urgent	and	crisis	demands	of	any	given workday)	and	an	antidote	for	the	imbalance	many	people	bring	upon themselves.” 


part


1


The	Art	of	Getting	Things	Done


1


A	New	Practice	for	a	New	Reality


 
There	is	one	thing	we	can	do,	and	the	happiest	people	are	those	who	can	do	it	to	the	limit	of
 
their	ability.	We	can	be	completely	present.	We	can	be	all	here.	We	can	give	.	.	.	our	attention	to
 
the	opportunity	before	us. 


 
—Mark	Van	Doren


IT’S	POSSIBLE	FOR	
a	person	to	have	an	overwhelming	number	of	things	to	do	and	still function	productively	with	a	clear	head	and	a	positive	sense	of	relaxed	control. 


That’s	a	great	way	to	live	and	work,	at	elevated	levels	of	effectiveness	and efficiency.	It’s	also	the	best	way	to	be	fully	present	with	whatever	you’re	doing, appropriately	engaged	in	the	moment.	It’s	when	time	disappears,	and	your attention	is	completely	at	your	command.	What	you’re	doing	is	exactly	what	you ought	to	be	doing,	given	the	whole	spectrum	of	your	commitments	and	interests. 


You’re	fully	available.	You’re	“on.” 


This	is	an	operational	style	now	critical	for	successful,	high-performing professionals;	a	necessary	mode	for	the	sanity	of	anyone	experiencing overextended	life	situations;	and	a	fundamental	platform	to	allow	all	of	us	the freedom	to	involve	ourselves	optimally	in	our	most	meaningful	endeavors. 


You	already	know	how	to	do	everything	necessary	to	achieve	this	healthy, high-performance	state.	If	you’re	like	most	people,	however,	you	need	to	apply these	skills	in	a	more	timely,	complete,	and	systematic	way	so	you	can	get	on top	of	it	all	instead	of	feeling	buried.	And	though	the	method	and	the	techniques I	describe	in	this	book	are	immensely	practical	and	based	on	common	sense, most	people	will	have	some	major	habits	that	must	be	modified	before	they	can fully	enjoy	the	benefits	of	this	system.	The	small	changes	required—changes	in the	way	you	clarify	and	organize	all	the	things	that	command	your	attention—


could	represent	a	significant	alteration	in	how	you	approach	some	key	aspects	of


your	day-to-day	activities.	But	the	results	are	often	reported	as	transformational. 


The	methods	I	present	here	are	all	based	on	three	key	objectives:	(1) capturing	 
all
	the	things	that	might	need	to	get	done	or	have	usefulness	for	you—


now,	later,	someday,	big,	little,	or	in	between—in	a	logical	and	trusted	system outside	your	head	and	off	your	mind;	(2)	directing	yourself	to	make	front-end decisions	about	all	of	the	“inputs”	you	let	into	your	life	so	that	you	will	always have	a	workable	inventory	of	“next	actions”	that	you	can	implement	or renegotiate	in	the	moment;	and	(3)	curating	and	coordinating	all	of	that	content, utilizing	the	recognition	of	the	multiple	levels	of	commitments	with	yourself	and others	you	will	have	at	play,	at	any	point	in	time. 


This	book	offers	a	proven	method	for	this	kind	of	high-performance workflow	management.	It	provides	good	tools,	tips,	techniques,	and	tricks	for implementation.	As	you’ll	discover,	the	principles	and	methods	are	instantly usable	and	applicable	to	everything	you	have	to	do	in	your	personal	as	well	as your	professional	life. 
*	
You	can	incorporate,	as	many	others	have	before	you, what	I	describe	as	an	ongoing	dynamic	style	of	operating	in	your	work	and	in your	world.	Or,	like	still	others,	you	can	simply	use	this	as	a	guide	to	getting back	into	better	control	when	you	feel	you	need	to. 


The	Problem:	New	Demands,	Insufficient	Resources


Almost	everyone	I	encounter	these	days	feels	he	or	she	has	too	much	to	handle and	not	enough	time	to	get	it	all	done.	In	the	course	of	a	single	week,	I	consulted with	a	partner	in	a	major	global	investment	firm	who	was	concerned	that	the	new corporate-management	responsibilities	he	was	being	offered	would	stress	his family	commitments	beyond	the	limits;	and	with	a	midlevel	human	resources manager	trying	to	stay	on	top	of	her	150-plus	e-mail	requests	per	day	fueled	by the	goal	of	doubling	the	company’s	regional	office	staff	from	eleven	hundred	to two	thousand	people	in	one	year,	all	as	she	tried	to	protect	a	social	life	for herself	on	the	weekends. 


A	paradox	has	emerged	in	this	new	millennium:	people	have	enhanced quality	of	life,	but	at	the	same	time	they	are	adding	to	their	stress	levels	by taking	on	more	than	they	have	resources	to	handle.	It’s	as	though	their	eyes	were bigger	than	their	stomachs.	The	plethora	of	options	and	opportunities	brings	with it	the	pressures	of	decision	making	and	choices.	And	most	people	are	to	some degree	frustrated	and	perplexed	about	how	to	improve	the	situation. 


Work	No	Longer	Has	Clear	Boundaries


A	major	factor	in	the	mounting	stress	level	is	that	the	actual	nature	of	our	jobs has	changed	much	more	dramatically	and	rapidly	than	have	our	training	for	and our	ability	to	deal	with	work.	In	just	the	last	half	of	the	twentieth	century,	what constituted	“work”	in	the	industrialized	world	was	transformed	from	assembly line,	make-it-and-move-it	kinds	of	activity	to	what	the	late	Peter	Drucker	so aptly	termed	“knowledge”	work. 


In	the	old	days,	work	was	self-evident.	Fields	were	to	be	plowed,	machines tooled,	boxes	packed,	cows	milked,	crates	moved.	You	knew	what	work	had	to be	done—you	could	see	it.	It	was	clear	when	the	work	was	finished,	or	not finished.	Increasing	your	productivity	was	all	about	making	the	work	process more	efficient,	or	simply	working	harder	or	longer. 


Almost	every	project	could	be	done	better,	and	an	infinite	quantity	of	information	is	now available	that	could	make	that	happen. 


Now,	for	many	of	us,	there	are	no	edges	to	most	of	our	projects.	Most	people I	know	have	at	least	half	a	dozen	things	they’re	trying	to	achieve	or	situations they’d	like	to	improve	right	now,	and	even	if	they	had	the	rest	of	their	lives	to try,	they	wouldn’t	be	able	to	finish	these	to	perfection.	You’re	probably	faced with	the	same	dilemma.	How	good	could	that	conference	be?	How	effective could	the	training	program	be,	or	the	structure	of	your	executives’	compensation package?	How	well	could	you	manage	your	kids’	education?	How	close	to perfect	is	the	blog	you’re	writing?	How	motivating	is	the	staff	meeting	you’re setting	up?	How	healthy	could	you	be?	How	functional	is	your	department’s reorganization?	And	a	last	question:	How	much	available	data	could	be	relevant to	doing	those	projects	“better”?	The	answer	is:	an	infinite	amount,	easily accessible,	or	at	least	potentially	so,	through	the	Internet. 


On	another	front,	the	lack	of	edges	can	create	 
more
	work	for	everyone.	Many of	today’s	organizational	outcomes	require	cross-divisional	communication, cooperation,	and	engagement.	Our	individual	office	silos	are	crumbling	(or	at least	need	to	be),	and	with	them	is	going	the	luxury	of	not	having	to	read	cc’d	e-mails	from	the	marketing	department,	or	from	human	resources,	or	from	some	ad hoc,	deal-with-a-certain-issue	committee.	Add	to	that	the	increasing	pull	on	your engagement	with	friends	and	family	as	distance	from	them	disappears,	with	even


aging	parents	taking	to	the	Internet	and	their	smartphones	to	“stay	connected.” 


The	ever-new	communication	technologies	have	exponentially	magnified	the lack	of	clear	limits	to	our	commitments	and	our	lives.	The	second	decade	of	this century	witnessed	an	explosion	of	concern	about	the	always-on	conundrum, fueled	by	globalization	(“half	my	team	is	in	Hong	Kong,	and	another	key	person in	Estonia”),	virtual	work	and	connection	capabilities,	and	not	the	least	by	the addiction	to	engaging	with	gadgets	in	our	pockets	and	on	our	wrists	that	have more	capacity	than	a	room	full	of	computers	did	in	1975. 


So,	not	only	are	work	and	its	cognitive	boundaries	more	ambiguous	and	ill defined,	so	are	the	time	and	space	within	which	we	can	(and	often	should)	be engaged	with	it,	along	with	the	continuing	explosion	of	potentially	meaningful and	accessible	data	that	could	add	value	to	our	lives. 


Our	Jobs	(and	Lives)	Keep	Changing


The	disintegrating	edges	of	our	projects	and	our	work	in	general	would	be challenging	enough	for	anyone.	But	now	we	must	add	to	that	equation	the constantly	shifting	definition	of	our	jobs,	as	well	as	the	frequent	changes	in responsibilities	and	interests	in	the	broader	scope	of	our	lives. 


Most	of	us	have,	in	the	past	seventy-two	hours,	received	more	change-producing,	project-creating,	and	priority-shifting	inputs	than	our	parents	did	in	a	month,	maybe	even	in	a	year. 


I	often	ask	in	my	seminar,	“Which	of	you	are	doing	only	what	you	were	hired to	do?	And	how	many	of	you	have	not	had	any	significant	change	in	your personal	life	in	the	past	year?”	Seldom	do	I	get	a	raised	hand.	As	amorphous	as edgeless	work	may	be,	if	you	had	the	chance	to	stick	with	some	specifically described	job	long	enough,	you’d	probably	figure	out	what	you	needed	to	do—


how	much,	at	what	level—to	stay	sane.	And	if	you	could	keep	life	in	general more	in	check—no	residence	moves,	no	relationship	changes,	no	emerging health	or	lifestyle	issues	for	you	and	for	loved	ones,	no	financial	surprises,	no motivational	programs	generating	inspiring	new	directions,	no	career	shifts thrust	on	you—you	might	be	able	to	create	a	rhythm	and	system	of	managing	it that	would	allow	for	some	relaxed	stability. 


 
We	can	never	really	be	prepared	for	that	which	is	wholly	new.	We	have	to	adjust	ourselves,	and
 
every	radical	adjustment	is	a	crisis	in	self-esteem;	we	undergo	a	test,	we	have	to	prove
 
ourselves.	It	needs	subordinate	self-confidence	to	face	drastic	change	without	inner	trembling. 


 
—Eric	Hoffer


But	few	have	that	luxury,	for	three	reasons:


1		|		
Organizations	are	now	almost	universally	in	morph	mode,	with	ever-changing	goals,	products,	partners,	customers,	markets,	technologies,	and owners.	These	all,	by	necessity,	shake	up	structures,	forms,	roles,	and accountabilities. 


2		|		
The	average	professional	is	more	of	a	free	agent	these	days	than	ever before,	changing	careers	as	often	as	his	or	her	parents	once	changed	jobs. 


Even	forty-	and	fiftysomethings	hold	to	standards	of	continual	growth. 


Their	aims	are	just	more	integrated	into	the	mainstream	now,	covered	by the	catch-all	arena	of	“professional,	management,	and	executive


development”—which	simply	means	they	won’t	keep	doing	what	they’re doing	for	any	extended	period	of	time
.*


3		|		
The	relative	speed	of	changes	in	our	cultures,	lifestyles,	and	technologies are	creating	greater	necessity	for	individuals	to	take	more	control	of	their unique	personal	situations,	more	often.	Suddenly	needing	to	handle eldercare	for	a	parent,	dealing	with	a	kid	now	back	at	home	without	a	job, grappling	with	an	unexpected	health	issue,	or	integrating	a	major	change one’s	life	partner	has	decided	to	initiate	.	.	.	all	such	seem	to	be	happening with	greater	frequency,	with	larger	consequences,	than	ever	before. 


Little	seems	clear	for	very	long	anymore,	as	far	as	what	to	do	at	the	office,	at home,	on	the	plane,	in	the	car,	and	at	the	local	café—on	the	weekend,	on Monday	morning,	on	waking	at	three	a.m.,	and	on	“vacation”;	and	what	or	how much	input	may	be	relevant	to	doing	it	well.	We’re	allowing	in	huge	amounts	of information	and	communication	from	the	outer	world	and	generating	an	equally large	volume	of	ideas	and	agreements	with	others	and	ourselves	from	the	inner world.	And	we	haven’t	been	well	equipped	to	deal	with	this	huge	number	of internal	and	external	commitments. 


Nothing	is	really	new	in	this	high-tech,	globally	wired	world,	except	how 
frequently
	it	is.	When	the	pace	of	change	in	life	and	work	was	much	slower, once	people	got	past	the	inevitable	discomfort	of	the	new,	they	could	hang	out


on	cruise	control	for	greatly	extended	periods	of	time.	Most	of	us	are	now	living in	a	world	that	does	not	afford	that	time-out	kind	of	luxury.	It’s	changing	while you’re	reading	this.	And	if,	while	you	 
have
	been	reading	this,	you’ve	been distracted	by	your	mind	wandering	to	other	things	going	on	in	your	life,	or you’ve	felt	impelled	to	check	e-mail	for	potentially	meaningful	new	input, you’re	experiencing	a	manifestation	of	this	don’t-miss-the-train	syndrome. 


The	Old	Models	and	Habits	Are	Insufficient


Neither	our	standard	education,	nor	traditional	time-management	models,	nor	the plethora	of	digital	and	paper-based	organizing	tools	available	has	given	us	a viable	means	of	meeting	the	new	demands	placed	on	us.	If	you’ve	tried	to	use any	of	these	processes	or	tools,	you’ve	probably	found	them	unable	to accommodate	the	speed,	complexity,	and	changing	priority	factors	inherent	in what	you	are	doing.	The	ability	to	be	focused,	relaxed,	and	in	control	during these	fertile	but	turbulent	and	often	unstructured	times	demands	new	ways	of thinking	and	working.	There	is	a	great	need	for	new	methods,	technologies,	and work	habits	to	help	us	get	on	top	of	our	world. 


The	traditional	approaches	to	time	management	and	personal	organization were	useful	in	their	time.	They	provided	helpful	reference	points	for	a	workforce that	was	just	emerging	from	an	industrial	assembly-line	modality	into	a	new	kind of	work	that	included	choices	about	what	to	do	and	discretion	about	when	to	do it.	When	time	itself	turned	into	a	work	factor,	personal	calendars	became	a	key work	tool.	(Even	in	the	1980s	many	professionals	considered	having	a	pocket calendar	the	essence	of	being	organized,	and	many	people	today	still	think	of their	calendar	and	possibly	their	e-mail	and	text	in-boxes	as	the	central	tools	for being	in	control.)	Along	with	discretionary	time	came	the	need	to	make	good choices	about	what	to	do.	Creating	“ABC”	priority	codes	and	daily	“to-do”	lists were	key	techniques	developed	to	help	people	sort	through	their	choices	in	some meaningful	way.	If	you	had	the	freedom	to	decide	what	to	do,	you	also	had	the responsibility	to	make	good	choices,	given	your	priorities. 


What	you’ve	probably	discovered,	at	least	at	some	level,	is	that	a	calendar, though	important,	can	really	effectively	manage	only	a	small	portion	of	what you	need	to	be	aware	of	to	feel	on	top	of	your	world.	And	daily	to-do	lists	and simplified	priority	coding	have	proven	inadequate	in	dealing	with	the	volume and	variable	nature	of	the	average	person’s	workload.	More	and	more	people’s


jobs	and	lives	are	made	up	of	hundreds	of	e-mails	and	texts	a	day,	with	no latitude	left	to	ignore	a	single	request,	complaint,	order,	or	communication	from company	or	family.	There	are	few	people	who	can	(or	even	should)	expect	to code	everything	based	upon	its	priority,	or	who	can	maintain	some predetermined	list	of	to-dos	that	the	first	telephone	call	or	instant	message	or interruption	from	their	boss	or	spouse	won’t	totally	 
un
 do. 


The	Big	Picture	vs.	the	Nitty-Gritty


 
The	winds	and	waves	are	always	on	the	side	of	the	ablest	navigators. 


 
—Edward	Gibbon


At	the	other	end	of	the	spectrum,	a	huge	number	of	business	books,	models, seminars,	and	gurus	have	championed	the	“bigger	view”	as	the	solution	to dealing	with	our	complex	world.	Clarifying	major	goals	and	values,	so	the thinking	goes,	gives	order,	meaning,	and	direction	to	our	work.	In	practice, however,	the	well-intentioned	exercise	of	values	thinking	too	often	does	not achieve	its	desired	results.	I	have	seen	too	many	of	these	efforts	fail,	for	one	or more	of	the	following	three	reasons:


1		|		
There	is	too	much	distraction	at	the	day-to-day,	hour-to-hour	level	of commitments	to	allow	for	appropriate	focus	on	the	higher	levels. 


2		|		
Ineffective	personal	organizational	systems	create	huge	subconscious resistance	to	undertaking	even	bigger	projects	and	goals	that	will	likely	not be	managed	well,	and	that	will	in	turn	cause	even	more	distraction	and stress. 


3		|		
When	loftier	levels	and	values	actually	are	clarified,	it	raises	the	bar	of	our standards,	making	us	notice	that	much	more	that	needs	changing.	We	are already	having	a	serious	negative	reaction	to	the	overwhelming	number	of things	we	have	to	do.	And	what	created	much	of	the	work	that’s	on	those lists	in	the	first	place?	Our	values! 


Focusing	on	primary	outcomes	and	values	 
is
	a	critical	exercise,	certainly.	It provides	needed	criteria	for	making	sometimes-difficult	choices	about	what	to


 
stop
	doing,	as	well	as	what	most	ought	to	have	our	attention	amid	our	excess	of options.	But	it	does	not	mean	that	there	is	less	to	do,	or	fewer	challenges	in getting	the	work	done.	Quite	the	contrary:	it	just	ups	the	ante	in	the	game,	which still	must	be	played	day	to	day.	For	a	human	resources	executive,	for	example, deciding	to	deal	with	quality-of-work-life	issues	in	order	to	attract	and	keep	key talent	does	 
not
	make	things	simpler.	Nor	would	there	be	less	to	do	for	a	mother recognizing	the	importance	of	providing	valuable	experiences	for	her	teenage daughter	in	the	few	vacations	left	they	may	take	together	before	she	leaves	home for	work	or	college.	Upping	the	quality	of	our	thinking	and	commitments	does not	diminish	the	quantity	of	potentially	relevant	and	important	stuff	to	manage. 


 
Chaos	isn’t	the	problem;	how	long	it	takes	to	find	coherence	is	the	real	game. 


 
—Doc	Childre	and	Bruce	Cryer


There	has	been	a	missing	piece	in	our	culture	of	knowledge	work:	a	system with	a	coherent	set	of	behaviors	and	tools	that	functions	effectively	at	the	level	at which	work	really	happens.	It	must	incorporate	the	results	of	big-picture thinking	as	well	as	the	smallest	of	open	details.	It	must	manage	multiple	tiers	of priorities.	It	must	maintain	control	over	hundreds	of	new	inputs	daily.	It	must save	a	lot	more	time	and	effort	than	are	needed	to	maintain	it.	It	must	make	it easier	to	get	things	done. 


The	Promise:	The	“Ready	State”	of	the	Martial	Artist


Reflect	for	a	moment	on	what	it	actually	might	be	like	if	your	personal management	situation	were	totally	under	control,	at	all	levels	and	at	all	times. 


What	if	you	had	completely	clear	mental	space,	with	nothing	pulling	or	pushing on	you	unproductively?	What	if	you	could	dedicate	fully	100	percent	of	your attention	to	whatever	was	at	hand,	at	your	own	choosing,	with	no	distraction? 


It	 
is
	possible.	There	 
is
	a	way	to	get	a	grip	on	it	all,	stay	relaxed,	and	get meaningful	things	done	with	minimal	effort,	across	the	whole	spectrum	of	your life	and	work.	You	 
can
	experience	what	the	martial	artists	call	a	“mind	like water”	and	top	athletes	refer	to	as	the	“zone,”	within	the	complex	world	in	which you’re	engaged.	In	fact,	you	have	probably	already	been	in	this	state	from	time to	time. 


 
Life	is	denied	by	lack	of	attention,	whether	it	be	to	cleaning	windows	or	trying	to	write	a
 
masterpiece. 


 
—Nadia	Boulanger


It’s	a	condition	of	working,	doing,	and	being	in	which	the	mind	is	clear	and constructive	things	are	happening.	It’s	a	state	that	is	accessible	to	everyone,	and one	that	is	increasingly	needed	to	deal	effectively	with	the	complexity	of	life	in this	century.	More	and	more	it	will	be	a	required	condition	for	any	of	us	who wish	to	maintain	balance	and	a	consistent	positive	output	in	our	work	and outlook	in	our	life.	World-class	rower	Craig	Lambert	has	described	how	it	feels in	 
Mind	Over	Water	
(Houghton	Mifflin,	1998):


 
Rowers	have	a	word	for	this	frictionless	state:	swing.	.	.	.	Recall	the	pure	joy
 
of	riding	on	a	backyard	swing:	an	easy	cycle	of	motion,	the	momentum
 
coming	from	the	swing	itself.	The	swing	carries	us;	we	do	not	force	it.	We
 
pump	our	legs	to	drive	our	arc	higher,	but	gravity	does	most	of	the	work.	We
 
are	not	so	much	swinging	as	being	swung.	The	boat	swings	you.	The	shell
 
wants	to	move	fast:	Speed	sings	in	its	lines	and	nature.	Our	job	is	simply	to
 
work	with	the	shell,	to	stop	holding	it	back	with	our	thrashing	struggles	to	go
 
faster.	Trying	too	hard	sabotages	boat	speed.	Trying	becomes	striving	and
 
striving	undoes	itself.	Social	climbers	strive	to	be	aristocrats	but	their	efforts
 
prove	them	no	such	thing.	Aristocrats	do	not	strive;	they	have	already
 
arrived.	Swing	is	a	state	of	arrival. 


The	“Mind	Like	Water”	Simile


In	karate	there	is	an	image	that’s	used	to	define	the	position	of	perfect	readiness:


“mind	like	water.”	Imagine	throwing	a	pebble	into	a	still	pond.	How	does	the water	respond?	The	answer	is,	totally	appropriately	to	the	force	and	mass	of	the input;	then	it	returns	to	calm.	It	doesn’t	overreact	or	underreact. 


Your	ability	to	generate	power	is	directly	proportional	to	your	ability	to	relax. 


Water	is	what	it	is,	and	does	what	it	does.	It	can	overwhelm,	but	it’s	not overwhelmed.	It	can	be	still,	but	it	is	not	impatient.	It	can	be	forced	to	change course,	but	it	is	not	frustrated.	Get	it? 


The	power	in	a	karate	punch	comes	from	speed,	not	muscle;	it	comes	from	a focused	“pop”	at	the	end	of	the	whip.	That’s	why	petite	people	can	learn	to	break boards	and	bricks	with	their	hands:	it	doesn’t	take	calluses	or	brute	strength;	just the	ability	to	generate	a	focused	thrust	with	speed.	But	a	tense	muscle	is	a	slow one.	So	the	high	levels	of	training	in	the	martial	arts	teach	and	demand	balance and	relaxation	as	much	as	anything	else.	Clearing	the	mind	to	being	open	and appropriately	responsive	is	the	key. 


Anything	that	causes	you	to	overreact	or	underreact	can	control	you,	and often	does.	Responding	inappropriately	to	your	e-mail,	your	thoughts	about	what you	need	to	do,	your	children,	or	your	boss	will	lead	to	less	effective	results	than you’d	like.	Most	people	give	either	more	or	less	attention	to	things	than	they deserve,	simply	because	they	don’t	operate	with	a	mind	like	water. 


Can	You	Get	into	Your	“Productive	State”	When	Required? 


Think	about	the	last	time	you	felt	highly	productive.	You	probably	had	a	sense of	being	in	control,	you	were	not	stressed	out,	you	were	highly	focused	on	what you	were	doing,	time	tended	to	disappear	(lunchtime	already?),	and	you	felt	you were	making	noticeable	progress	toward	a	meaningful	outcome.	Would	you	like to	have	more	such	experiences? 


 
If	your	mind	is	empty,	it	is	always	ready	for	anything;	it	is	open	for	everything. 


 
—Shunryu	Suzuki


And	if	you	get	seriously	far	out	of	that	state—and	start	to	feel	out	of	control, stressed	out,	unfocused,	bored,	and	stuck—do	you	have	the	ability	to	get yourself	back	into	it?	That’s	where	the	methodology	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
	will have	the	greatest	impact	on	your	life,	by	showing	you	how	to	get	back	to	mind like	water,	with	all	your	resources	and	faculties	functioning	at	a	maximum	level. 


A	challenge	for	many	may	be	the	lack	of	a	reference	point	as	to	when	they	fall out	of	the	productive	state.	Most	people	have	lived	in	a	semistressful	experience


so	consistently,	for	so	long,	they	don’t	know	that	it	could	be	quite	different—that there	is	another	and	more	positive	place	from	which	to	engage	with	their	world. 


Hopefully	this	book	will	inspire	you	to	raise	the	bar	about	how	much	pressure you	will	allow	yourself	to	tolerate,	knowing	you	have	the	techniques	to	reduce	it. 


The	Principle:	Dealing	Effectively	with	Internal


Commitments


A	basic	truism	I	have	discovered	over	decades	of	coaching	and	training thousands	of	people	is	that	most	stress	they	experience	comes	from inappropriately	managed	commitments	they	make	or	accept.	Even	those	who	are not	consciously	“stressed	out”	will	invariably	experience	greater	relaxation, better	focus,	and	increased	productive	energy	when	they	learn	more	effectively to	control	the	“open	loops”	of	their	lives. 


You’ve	probably	made	many	more	agreements	with	yourself	than	you realize,	and	every	single	one	of	them—big	or	little—is	being	tracked	by	a	less-than-conscious	part	of	you.	These	are	the	“incompletes,”	or	“open	loops,”	which I	define	as	anything	pulling	at	your	attention	that	doesn’t	belong	where	it	is,	the way	it	is.	Open	loops	can	include	everything	from	really	big	to-do	items	like


“End	world	hunger”	to	the	more	modest	“Hire	new	assistant”	to	the	tiniest	task such	as	“Replace	porch	lightbulb.” 


Anything	that	does	not	belong	where	it	is,	the	way	it	is,	is	an	“open	loop,”	which	will	be	pulling on	your	attention	if	it’s	not	appropriately	managed. 


In	order	to	deal	effectively	with	all	of	that,	you	must	first	identify	and	capture all	those	things	that	are	“ringing	your	bell”	in	some	way,	clarify	what,	exactly, they	mean	to	you,	and	then	make	a	decision	about	how	to	move	on	them.	That may	seem	like	a	simple	process,	but	in	reality	most	people	don’t	do	it	in	a consistent	way.	They	lack	the	knowledge	or	the	motivation,	or	both,	and	most likely	because	they	aren’t	aware	of	the	prices	paid	for	neglecting	that	practice. 


The	Basic	Requirements	for	Managing	Commitments


Managing	commitments	well	requires	the	implementation	of	some	basic


activities	and	behaviors:


First	of	all,	if	it’s	on	your	mind,	your	mind	isn’t	clear.	Anything	you consider	unfinished	in	any	way	must	be	captured	in	a	trusted	system	outside your	mind,	or	what	I	call	a	collection	tool,	that	you	know	you’ll	come	back to	regularly	and	sort	through. 


Second,	you	must	clarify	exactly	what	your	commitment	is	and	decide	what you	have	to	do,	if	anything,	to	make	progress	toward	fulfilling	it. 


Third,	once	you’ve	decided	on	all	the	actions	you	need	to	take,	you	must keep	reminders	of	them	organized	in	a	system	you	review	regularly. 


You	must	 
use
	your	mind	to	get	things	 
off
	your	mind. 


An	Important	Exercise	to	Test	This	Model


I	suggest	that	you	write	down	the	project	or	situation	that	is	most	on	your	mind at	this	moment.	What	most	bugs	you,	distracts	you,	or	interests	you,	or	in	some other	way	consumes	a	large	part	of	your	conscious	attention?	It	may	be	a	project or	problem	that	is	really	“in	your	face,”	something	you	are	being	pressed	to handle,	or	a	situation	you	feel	you	must	deal	with	sooner	rather	than	later. 


Maybe	you	have	a	holiday	trip	coming	up	that	you	need	to	make	some	major last-minute	decisions	about.	You	just	read	an	e-mail	about	a	new	and	pressing issue	in	your	department.	Or	perhaps	you	just	inherited	six	million	dollars	and you	don’t	know	what	to	do	with	the	cash.	Whatever. 


Got	it?	Good.	Now,	describe,	in	a	single	written	sentence,	your	intended successful	outcome	for	this	problem	or	situation.	In	other	words,	what	would need	to	happen	for	you	to	check	this	project	off	as	“done”?	It	could	be	as	simple as	“Take	the	Hawaii	vacation,”	“Handle	situation	with	customer	X,”	“Resolve college	situation	with	Susan,”	“Clarify	new	divisional	management	structure,” 


“Implement	new	investment	strategy,”	or	“Research	options	for	dealing	with Manuel’s	reading	issue.”	All	clear?	Great. 


Now	write	down	the	 
very	next	physical	action	required	to	move	the	situation
 
forward
.	If	you	had	nothing	else	to	do	in	your	life	but	get	closure	on	this,	what visible	action	would	you	take	right	now?	Would	you	call	or	text	someone?	Write an	e-mail?	Take	pen	and	paper	and	brainstorm	about	it?	Surf	the	Web	for	data? 


Buy	nails	at	the	hardware	store?	Talk	about	it	face-to-face	with	your	partner, your	assistant,	your	attorney,	or	your	boss?	What? 


Got	the	answer	to	that?	Good. 


Was	there	any	value	for	you	in	those	two	minutes	of	thinking?	If	you’re	like the	vast	majority	of	people	who	complete	that	drill	in	our	seminars,	you’ll	be experiencing	at	least	a	tiny	bit	of	enhanced	control,	relaxation,	and	focus.	You’ll also	be	feeling	more	motivated	to	actually	 
do
	something	about	that	situation you’ve	merely	been	thinking	about	till	now.	Imagine	that	motivation	magnified	a thousandfold,	as	a	way	to	live	and	work. 


 
Think	like	a	man	of	action,	act	like	a	man	of	thought. 


 
—Henri	Bergson


If	anything	at	all	positive	happened	for	you	in	this	little	exercise,	think	about this:	What	changed?	What	happened	to	create	that	improved	condition	within your	own	experience?	The	situation	itself	is	no	further	along,	at	least	in	the physical	world.	It’s	certainly	not	finished	yet.	What	probably	happened	is	that you	acquired	a	clearer	definition	of	the	outcome	desired	and	the	next	action required.	What	did	change	is	the	most	important	element	for	clarity,	focus,	and peace	of	mind:	how	you	are	engaged	with	your	world. 


But	what	created	that?	Not	“getting	organized”	or	“setting	priorities.”	The answer	is,  
thinking
.	Not	a	lot;	just	enough	to	solidify	your	commitment	about	a discrete	pressure	or	opportunity	and	the	resources	required	dealing	with	it. 


People	think	a	lot,	but	most	of	that	thinking	is	 
of
	a	problem,	project,	or	situation


—not	 
about
	it.	If	you	actually	did	this	suggested	exercise,	you	were	required	to structure	your	thinking	toward	an	outcome	and	an	action,	and	that	does	not usually	happen	without	a	consciously	focused	effort.	Reacting	is	automatic,	but thinking	is	not. 


The	Real	Work	of	Knowledge	Work


 
The	ancestor	of	every	action	is	a	thought. 


 
—Ralph	Waldo	Emerson


Welcome	to	the	real-life	experience	of	“knowledge	work,”	and	a	profound operational	principle:	you	have	to	think	about	your	stuff	more	than	you	realize but	not	as	much	as	you’re	afraid	you	might.	As	Peter	Drucker	wrote:	“In knowledge	work	.	.	.	the	task	is	not	given;	it	has	to	be	determined.	‘What	are	the expected	results	from	this	work?’	is	.	.	.	the	key	question	in	making	knowledge workers	productive.	And	it	is	a	question	that	demands	risky	decisions.	There	is usually	no	right	answer;	there	are	choices	instead.	And	results	have	to	be	clearly specified,	if	productivity	is	to	be	achieved.” 
*


Most	people	have	a	resistance	to	initiating	the	burst	of	energy	that	it	will	take to	clarify	the	real	meaning,	for	them,	of	something	they	have	let	into	their	world, and	to	decide	what	they	need	to	do	about	it.	We’re	never	really	taught	that	we have	to	think	about	our	work	before	we	can	do	it;	much	of	our	daily	activity	is already	defined	for	us	by	the	undone	and	unmoved	things	staring	at	us	when	we come	to	work,	or	by	the	family	to	be	fed,	the	laundry	to	be	done,	or	the	children to	be	dressed	at	home.	Thinking	in	a	concentrated	manner	to	define	desired outcomes	and	requisite	next	actions	is	something	few	people	feel	they	have	to	do (until	they	 
have
	to).	But	in	truth,	it	is	the	most	effective	means	available	for making	wishes	a	reality. 


Why	Things	Are	on	Your	Mind


Most	often,	the	reason	something	is	on	your	mind	is	that	you	want	it	to	be different	than	it	currently	is,	and	yet:


you	haven’t	clarified	exactly	what	the	intended	outcome	is; 


 
This	consistent,	unproductive	preoccupation	with	all	the	things	we	have	to	do	is	the	single
 
largest	consumer	of	time	and	energy. 


 
—Kerry	Gleeson


you	haven’t	decided	what	the	very	next	physical	action	step	is;	and/or you	haven’t	put	reminders	of	the	outcome	and	the	action	required	in	a system	you	trust. 


That’s	why	it’s	on	your	mind.	Until	those	thoughts	have	been	clarified	and those	decisions	made,	and	the	resulting	data	has	been	stored	in	a	system	that	you 
absolutely
	know	you	will	access	and	think	about	when	you	need	to,	your	brain can’t	give	up	the	job.	You	can	fool	everyone	else,	but	you	can’t	fool	your	own mind.	It	knows	whether	or	not	you’ve	come	to	the	conclusions	you	need	to,	and whether	you’ve	put	the	resulting	outcomes	and	action	reminders	in	a	place	that can	be	trusted	to	resurface	appropriately	within	your	conscious	mind
.*
	If	you haven’t	done	those	things,	it	won’t	quit	working	overtime.	Even	if	you’ve already	decided	on	the	next	step	you’ll	take	to	resolve	a	problem,	your	mind can’t	let	go	until	and	unless	you	park	a	reminder	in	a	place	it	 
knows
	you	will, without	fail,	look.	It	will	keep	pressuring	you	about	that	untaken	next	step, usually	when	you	can’t	do	anything	about	it,	which	will	just	add	to	your	stress. 


Your	Mind	Doesn’t	Have	a	Mind	of	Its	Own


At	least	a	portion	of	your	mind	is	really	kind	of	stupid,	in	an	interesting	way.	If	it had	any	innate	intelligence	and	logic,	it	would	remind	you	of	the	things	you needed	to	do	only	when	you	could	do	something	about	them. 


Do	you	have	a	flashlight	somewhere	with	dead	batteries	in	it?	When	does your	mind	tend	to	remind	you	that	you	need	more	batteries?	When	you	notice the	dead	ones!	That’s	not	very	smart.	If	your	mind	had	any	innate	intelligence,	it would	remind	you	about	those	dead	batteries	only	when	you	passed	new	ones	in a	store.	And	ones	of	the	right	size,	to	boot. 


 
Rule	your	mind	or	it	will	rule	you. 


 
—Horace


Between	the	time	you	woke	up	today	and	now,	did	you	think	of	anything	you needed	to	do	that	you	still	haven’t	done?	Have	you	had	that	thought	more	than once?	Why?	It’s	a	waste	of	time	and	energy	to	keep	thinking	about	something that	you	make	no	progress	on.	And	it	only	adds	to	your	anxiety	about	what	you should	be	doing	and	aren’t. 


Most	people	let	their	reactive	mental	process	run	a	lot	of	the	show,	especially where	the	too-much-to-do	syndrome	is	concerned.	You’ve	probably	given	over	a


lot	of	your	“stuff,”	a	lot	of	your	open	loops,	to	an	entity	on	your	inner	committee that	is	incapable	of	dealing	with	those	things	effectively	the	way	they	are—your mind.	Research	has	now	proven	that	a	significant	part	of	your	psyche	cannot help	but	keep	track	of	your	open	loops,	and	not	(as	originally	thought)	as	an intelligent,	positive	motivator,	but	as	a	detractor	from	anything	else	you	need	or want	to	think	about,	diminishing	your	capacity	to	perform. 


The	Transformation	of	“Stuff” 


Here’s	how	I	define	“stuff”:	anything	you	have	allowed	into	your	psychological or	physical	world	that	doesn’t	belong	where	it	is,	but	for	which	you	haven’t	yet determined	what,	exactly,	it	means	to	you,	with	the	desired	outcome	and	the	next action	step.	The	reason	most	organizing	systems	haven’t	worked	for	most	people is	that	they	haven’t	yet	transformed	all	the	stuff	they’re	trying	to	organize.	As long	as	it’s	still	stuff,	it’s	not	controllable. 


We	need	to	transform	all	the	“stuff”	we’ve	attracted	and	accumulated	into	a	clear	inventory	of meaningful	actions,	projects,	and	usable	information. 


Almost	all	of	the	to-do	lists	I	have	seen	over	the	years	(when	people	had them	at	all!)	were	merely	listings	of	stuff,	not	inventories	of	the	resultant	real work	that	needed	to	be	done.	They	were	partial	reminders	of	a	lot	of	things	that were	unresolved	and	as	yet	untranslated	into	outcomes	and	actions—that	is,	the real	outlines	and	details	of	what	the	list	maker	had	to	do. 


Typical	things	you	will	see	on	a	to-do	list:	“Mom”	“Bank”	“Doctor”	“Babysitter”	“VP	Marketing”	etc.	Looking	at	these	often	creates	more	stress	than relief,	because,	though	it	is	a	valuable	trigger	for	something	that	you’ve committed	to	do	or	decide	something	about,	it	still	calls	out	psychologically, 


“Decide	about	me!”	And	if	you	do	not	have	the	energy	or	focus	at	the	moment	to think	and	decide,	it	will	simply	remind	you	that	you	are	overwhelmed. 


Stuff	is	not	inherently	a	bad	thing.	Things	that	command	or	attract	our attention,	by	their	very	nature,	usually	show	up	as	stuff.	But	once	we	allow	stuff to	come	into	our	lives	and	work,	we	have	an	inherent	commitment	to	ourselves to	define	and	clarify	its	meaning.	In	the	professional	world,	our	jobs	require	us	to think,	assess,	decide,	and	execute—minute	by	minute—whether	about	an	e-mail


or	our	notes	from	the	morning’s	strategy	meeting.	That’s	inherent	in	your	job.	If you	didn’t	have	to	think	about	those	things,	you’re	probably	not	required	to.	And personally,	we	will	shortchange	ourselves	when	we	allow	issues	in	our	daily lifestyle—home,	family,	health,	finances,	career,	or	relationships—to	lie	fallow in	our	consciousness	because	of	lack	of	definition	of	the	specific	outcomes desired	and	actions	required. 


 
Thought	is	useful	when	it	motivates	action	and	a	hindrance	when	it	substitutes	for	action. 


 
—Bill	Raeder


At	the	conclusion	of	one	of	my	seminars,	a	senior	manager	of	a	major	biotech firm	looked	back	at	the	to-do	list	she	had	come	in	with	and	said,	“Boy,	that	was an	amorphous	blob	of	undoability!”	That’s	the	best	description	I	have	ever	heard about	what	passes	for	organizing	lists	in	most	systems.	The	vast	majority	of people	have	been	trying	to	get	organized	by	rearranging	incomplete	lists	of unclear	things;	they	haven’t	yet	realized	how	much	and	what	they	need	to organize	in	order	to	get	the	real	payoff.	They	need	to	gather	everything	that requires	thinking	about	and	then	 
do
	that	thinking	if	their	organizational	efforts are	to	be	successful. 


The	Process:	Managing	Action


You	can	train	yourself,	almost	like	an	athlete,	to	be	faster,	more	responsive, more	proactive,	and	more	focused	in	dealing	with	all	the	things	you	need	to	deal with.	You	can	think	more	effectively	and	manage	the	results	with	more	ease	and control.	You	can	minimize	the	loose	ends	across	the	whole	spectrum	of	your work	life	and	personal	life	and	get	a	lot	more	done	with	less	effort.	And	you	can make	front-end	decision	making	about	all	the	stuff	you	collect	and	create standard	operating	procedure	for	living	and	working	in	this	millennium. 


Before	you	can	achieve	any	of	that,	though,	you’ll	need	to	get	in	the	habit	of keeping	nothing	on	your	mind.	And	the	way	to	do	 
that
,	as	we’ve	seen,	is	not	by managing	time,	managing	information,	or	managing	priorities.	After	all: you	don’t	manage	five	minutes	and	wind	up	with	six; 


you	don’t	manage	information	overload—otherwise	you’d	walk	into	a library	and	die,	or	the	first	time	you	connected	to	the	Web,	you’d	blow	up; and


you	don’t	manage	priorities—you	 
have
	them. 


Instead,	the	key	to	managing	all	of	your	stuff	is	managing	your	 
actions
. 


 
The	beginning	is	half	of	every	action. 


 
—Greek	proverb


Managing	Action	Is	the	Prime	Challenge


What	you	do	with	your	time,	what	you	do	with	information,	and	what	you	do with	your	body	and	your	focus	relative	to	your	priorities—those	are	the	real options	to	which	you	must	allocate	your	limited	resources.	The	substantive	issue is	how	to	make	appropriate	choices	about	what	to	do	at	any	point	in	time.	The real	work	is	to	manage	our	actions. 


That	may	sound	obvious.	However,	it	might	amaze	you	to	discover	how many	next	actions	for	how	many	projects	and	commitments	remain


undetermined	by	most	people.	It’s	extremely	difficult	to	manage	actions	you haven’t	identified	or	decided	on.	Most	people	have	dozens	of	things	that	they need	to	do	to	make	progress	on	many	fronts,	but	they	don’t	yet	know	what	they are.	And	the	common	complaint	that	“I	don’t	have	time	to	____”	(fill	in	the blank)	is	understandable	because	many	projects	seem	overwhelming—and	 
are
 overwhelming	because	you	can’t	 
do
	a	project	at	all!	You	can	only	do	an	action related	to	it.	Many	actions	require	only	a	minute	or	two,	in	the	appropriate context,	to	move	a	project	forward. 


Things	rarely	get	stuck	because	of	lack	of	time.	They	get	stuck	because	what	“doing”	would look	like,	and	where	it	happens,	hasn’t	been	decided. 


In	training	and	coaching	many	thousands	of	people,	I	have	found	that	lack	of time	is	not	the	major	issue	for	them	(though	they	may	think	it	is);	the	real


problem	is	a	lack	of	clarity	and	definition	about	what	a	project	really	is,	and what	associated	next-action	steps	are	required.	Clarifying	things	on	the	front end,	when	they	first	appear	on	the	radar,	rather	than	on	the	back	end,	after trouble	has	developed,	allows	people	to	reap	the	benefits	of	managing	action. 


Getting	things	done	requires	two	basic	components:	defining	(1)	what	“done” 


means	(outcome)	and	(2)	what	“doing”	looks	like	(action).	And	these	are	far from	self-evident	for	most	people	about	most	things	that	have	their	attention. 


The	Value	of	a	Bottom-Up	Approach


I	have	discovered	over	the	years	the	practical	value	of	working	on	personal productivity	improvement	from	the	bottom	up,	starting	with	the	most	mundane, ground-floor	level	of	current	activity	and	commitments.	Intellectually,	the	most appropriate	way	ought	to	be	to	work	from	the	top	down,	first	uncovering personal	and	organizational	purpose	and	vision,	then	defining	critical	objectives, and	finally	focusing	on	the	details	of	implementation.	The	trouble	is,	however, that	most	people	are	so	embroiled	in	commitments	on	a	day-to-day	level	that their	ability	to	focus	successfully	on	the	larger	horizon	is	seriously	impaired. 


Consequently,	a	bottom-up	approach	is	usually	more	effective. 


Getting	current	on,	and	in	control	of,	what’s	in	your	in-tray	and	on	your	mind right	now,	and	incorporating	practices	that	you	can	trust	will	help	you	 
stay
	that way,	will	provide	the	best	means	of	broadening	your	horizons.	A	creative, buoyant	energy	will	be	unleashed	that	will	better	support	your	focus	on	new heights,	and	your	confidence	will	increase	to	handle	what	that	creativity produces.	An	immediate	sense	of	freedom,	release,	and	inspiration	naturally comes	to	people	who	roll	up	their	sleeves	and	implement	this	process. 


 
Vision	is	not	enough;	it	must	be	combined	with	venture.	It	is	not	enough	to	stare	up	the	steps;	we
 
must	step	up	the	stairs. 


 
—Václav	Havel


You’ll	be	better	equipped	to	undertake	higher-focused	thinking	when	your tools	for	handling	the	resulting	actions	for	implementation	are	part	of	your ongoing	operational	style.	There	are	more	meaningful	things	to	think	about	than your	in-tray,	but	if	your	management	of	that	level	is	not	as	efficient	as	it	could


be,	it’s	like	trying	to	swim	in	baggy	clothing. 


Many	executives	I	have	worked	with	during	the	day	to	clear	the	decks	of their	mundane	stuff	have	spent	the	evening	having	a	stream	of	ideas	and	visions about	their	company	and	their	future	lifestyle.	This	happens	as	an	automatic consequence	of	unsticking	their	workflow. 


Horizontal	and	Vertical	Action	Management


You	need	to	control	commitments,	projects,	and	actions	in	two	ways—


horizontally	and	vertically.	Horizontal	control	maintains	coherence	across	all	the activities	in	which	you	are	involved.	Imagine	your	psyche	constantly	scanning your	environment	like	a	police	radar;	it	may	land	on	any	of	a	thousand	different items	that	invite	or	demand	your	attention	during	any	twenty-four-hour	period: the	drugstore,	your	daughter’s	boyfriend,	the	board	meeting,	your	aunt	Martha, an	incoming	text	message,	the	strategic	plan,	lunch,	a	wilting	plant	in	the	office, an	upset	customer,	shoes	that	need	shining.	You	need	to	buy	stamps,	figure	out what	to	do	about	the	presentation	tomorrow,	deposit	that	check,	make	the	hotel reservation,	cancel	a	meeting,	and	watch	a	movie	tonight.	You	might	be surprised	at	the	volume	of	things	you	actually	think	about	and	have	to	deal	with just	in	one	day.	You	need	a	good	system	that	can	keep	track	of	as	many	of	them as	possible,	supply	required	information	about	them	on	demand,	and	allow	you to	shift	your	focus	from	one	thing	to	the	next	quickly	and	easily. 


Vertical	control,	in	contrast,	manages	thinking,	development,	and coordination	of	individual	topics	and	projects.	For	example,	your	inner	“police radar”	lands	on	your	next	vacation	as	you	and	your	life	partner	talk	about	it	over dinner—where	and	when	you’ll	go,	what	you’ll	do,	how	to	prepare	for	the	trip, and	so	on.	Or	you	and	your	boss	need	to	make	some	decisions	about	the	new departmental	reorganization	you’re	about	to	launch.	Or	you	just	need	to	get	your thinking	up-to-date	on	the	customer	you’re	about	to	call.	This	is	“project planning”	in	the	broad	sense.	It’s	focusing	in	on	a	single	endeavor,	situation,	or person	and	fleshing	out	whatever	ideas,	details,	priorities,	and	sequences	of events	may	be	required	for	you	to	handle	it,	at	least	for	the	moment. 


The	goal	for	managing	horizontally	and	vertically	is	the	same:	to	get	things off	your	mind	and	get	them	done.	Appropriate	action	management	lets	you	feel comfortable	and	in	control	as	you	move	through	your	broad	spectrum	of	work and	life,	while	appropriate	project	focusing	gets	you	clear	about	and	on	track


with	the	specifics	needed. 


The	Major	Change:	Getting	It	All	Out	of	Your	Head


There	is	usually	an	inverse	relationship	between	how	much	something	is	on	your	mind	and	how much	it’s	getting	done. 


There	is	no	real	way	to	achieve	the	kind	of	relaxed	control	I’m	promising	if	you keep	things	only	in	your	head.	As	you’ll	discover,	the	individual	behaviors described	in	this	book	are	things	you’re	already	doing.	The	big	difference between	what	I	do	and	what	others	do	is	that	I	capture	and	organize	100	percent of	my	stuff	in	and	with	objective	tools	at	hand,	not	in	my	mind.	And	that	applies to	everything—little	or	big,	personal	or	professional,	urgent	or	not.	Everything. 
*


I’m	sure	that	at	some	time	or	other	you’ve	gotten	to	a	point	in	a	project,	or	in your	life,	where	you	just	 
had
	to	sit	down	and	 
make	a	list
.	Subsequently	you	felt at	least	slightly	more	focused	and	in	control.	If	so,	you	have	a	reference	point	for what	I’m	talking	about.	Nothing	externally	changed	in	your	world,	and	yet	you felt	better	about	it.	What	did	change,	significantly,	is	 
how	you	were	engaged	with
 
your	world
.	That	always	happens	when	you	get	potentially	meaningful	things	out of	your	head.	Most	people,	however,	do	that	kind	of	list-making	drill	only	when the	confusion	gets	too	unbearable	and	they	just	 
have
	to	do	something	about	it. 


They	usually,	though,	only	make	a	list	about	the	specific	area	that’s	bugging them.	But	if	you	made	that	kind	of	externalization	and	review	a	characteristic	of your	ongoing	life-	and	work	style,	and	you	maintained	it	across	all	areas	of	your life	(not	just	the	most	“urgent”),	you’d	be	practicing	the	kind	of	mind	like	water management	style	I’m	describing.	In	my	experience	this	process	 
always
 improves	our	perspective	and	our	experience.	Why	wait? 


There	is	no	reason	to	ever	have	the	same	thought	twice,	unless	you	like	having	that	thought. 


I	try	to	make	intuitive	choices	based	on	my	options,	instead	of	trying	to	think about	what	those	options	are.	I	need	to	have	thought	about	all	of	that	already	and captured	the	results	in	a	trusted	way.	I	don’t	want	to	waste	time	thinking	about


things	more	than	once.	That’s	an	inefficient	use	of	creative	energy	and	a	source of	frustration	and	stress. 


Any	“would,	could,	or	should”	commitment	held	only	in	the	psyche	creates	irrational	and unresolvable	pressure,	24-7. 


And	you	can’t	fudge	this	thinking.	Your	mind	will	keep	working	on	anything that’s	still	in	that	undecided	state.	But	that	kind	of	recursive	spinning	in	your mind	has	now	been	proven	to	reduce	your	capacity	to	think	and	perform,	and there’s	a	limit	to	how	much	unresolved	stuff	it	can	contain	before	it	blows	a	fuse. 


The	short-term-memory	part	of	your	mind—the	part	that	tends	to	hold	all	of the	incomplete,	undecided,	and	unorganized	stuff—functions	much	like	RAM


(random-access	memory)	on	a	computer.	Your	conscious	mind,	like	the computer	screen,	is	a	focusing	tool,	not	a	storage	place.	You	can	think	about only	two	or	three	things	at	once.	But	the	incomplete	items	are	still	being	stored in	the	short-term-memory	space.	And	as	with	RAM,	there’s	limited	capacity; there’s	only	so	much	stuff	you	can	store	in	there	and	still	have	that	part	of	your brain	function	at	a	high	level.	Most	people	walk	around	with	their	RAM	bursting at	the	seams.	They’re	constantly	distracted,	their	focus	disturbed	and performance	diminished	by	their	own	internal	mental	overload.	Recent	research in	the	cognitive	sciences	has	now	validated	this	conclusion.	Studies	have demonstrated	that	our	mental	processes	are	hampered	by	the	burden	put	on	the mind	to	keep	track	of	things	we’re	committed	to	finish,	without	a	trusted	plan	or system	in	place	to	handle	them
.*


For	example,	in	the	past	few	minutes,	has	your	mind	wandered	off	into	some area	that	doesn’t	have	anything	to	do	with	what	you’re	reading	here?	Probably. 


And	most	likely	where	your	mind	went	was	to	some	open	loop,	some	incomplete situation	that	you	have	an	investment	in.	That	situation	merely	reared	up	out	of the	RAM	part	of	your	brain	and	yelled	at	you	internally.	And	what	did	you	do about	it?	Unless	you	wrote	it	down	and	put	it	in	a	trusted	collection	tool	that	you know	you’ll	review	appropriately	sometime	soon,	more	than	likely	you	worried, or	at	least	reinforced	some	unresolved	tension,	about	it.	Not	the	most	effective behavior:	no	progress	was	made,	and	stress	increased. 


A	big	problem	is	that	your	mind	keeps	reminding	you	of	things	when	you can’t	do	anything	about	them.	It	has	no	sense	of	past	or	future.	That	means	as soon	as	you	tell	yourself	that	you	might	need	to	do	something,	and	store	it	only


in	your	head,	there’s	a	part	of	you	that	thinks	you	should	be	doing	that something	 
all	the	time
.	Everything	you’ve	told	yourself	you	ought	to	do,	it thinks	you	should	be	doing	 
right	now
.	Frankly,	as	soon	as	you	have	two	things	to do	stored	only	in	your	mind,	you’ve	generated	personal	failure,	because	you can’t	do	them	both	at	the	same	time.	This	produces	a	pervasive	stress	factor whose	source	can’t	be	pinpointed. 


 
It	is	hard	to	fight	an	enemy	who	has	outposts	in	your	head. 


 
—Sally	Kempton


Most	people	have	been	in	some	version	of	this	mental	stress	state	so consistently,	for	so	long,	that	they	don’t	even	know	they’re	in	it.	Like	gravity, it’s	ever	present—so	much	so	that	those	who	experience	it	usually	aren’t	even aware	of	the	pressure.	The	only	time	most	of	them	will	realize	how	much	tension they’ve	been	under	is	when	they	get	rid	of	it	and	notice	how	different	they	feel. 


It’s	like	the	constant	buzzing	noise	in	a	room	you	didn’t	know	was	there	until	it stops. 


Can	you	get	rid	of	that	kind	of	stress	and	noise?	You	bet.	The	rest	of	this book	will	explain	how. 


2


Getting	Control	of	Your	Life:	The	Five	Steps


of	Mastering	Workflow


Don’t	let	life	get	in	your	way. 


THE	CORE	PROCESS	
for	mastering	the	art	of	relaxed	and	controlled	engagement	is	a five-step	method	for	managing	your	workflow—the	ever-present	ingestion	and expressions	of	our	experiences.	No	matter	what	the	setting,	there	are	five discrete	stages	that	we	go	through	as	we	deal	with	our	life,	our	work,	and	their consistent	inputs	and	changes.	Getting	things	under	control,	whether	that’s	in your	kitchen	or	in	your	company,	will	incorporate	them.	And	each	of	these separate	aspects	has	its	own	best	practices	and	tools,	and	must	work	together with	the	rest	as	a	whole	to	produce	that	wonderfully	productive	state	of	being present	amid	all	the	complexity.	It’s	not	simply	about	“getting	organized”	or


“setting	priorities.”	Those	are	good	things,	but	they	happen	as	a	result	of applying	these	five	steps—not	by	themselves.	These	procedures	I	will	describe work	together	as	a	whole,	and	using	them	to	produce	results	is	both	easier	and more	challenging	than	you	may	think. 


 
A	useful	definition	of	liberty	is	obtained	only	by	seeking	the	principle	of	liberty	in	the	main
 
business	of	human	life,	that	is	to	say,	in	the	process	by	which	men	educate	their	responses	and
 
learn	to	control	their	environment. 


 
—Walter	Lippmann


We	(1)	 
capture
	what	has	our	attention;	(2)	 
clarify
	what	each	item	means	and what	to	do	about	it;	(3)	 
organize
	the	results,	which	presents	the	options	we	(4)


 
reflect
	on,	which	we	then	choose	to	(5)	 
engage
	with.	This	constitutes	the management	of	the	horizontal	aspect	of	our	lives,	incorporating	everything	that we	need	to	consider	at	any	time,	as	we	move	forward	moment	to	moment. 


These	are	not	arbitrary	or	purely	theoretical	suggestions—they	are	what	we all	do,	anytime	we	want	to	bring	something	under	control	and	stabilize	it	for productive	action.	If	you’re	planning	to	cook	dinner	for	friends,	but	you	come home	and	find	the	kitchen	a	total	mess,	how	do	you	get	on	top	of	it?	First	you identify	all	the	stuff	that	doesn’t	belong	where	it	is,	the	way	it	is	(capture);	you then	determine	what	to	keep	and	what	to	throw	away	(clarify);	you	put	things where	they	need	to	go—back	in	the	refrigerator,	in	the	garbage,	or	in	the	sink (organize);	you	then	check	your	recipe	book,	along	with	the	ingredients	and utensils	you	have	(reflect);	and	you	get	started	by	putting	butter	in	the	pan	to start	melting	(engage). 


The	method	is	straightforward	enough	in	principle,	and	it	is	generally	how we	all	go	about	our	work	in	any	case,	but	in	my	experience	most	people	can significantly	improve	their	handling	of	each	one	of	the	five	steps.	The	quality	of our	workflow	management	is	only	as	good	as	the	weakest	link	in	this	five-phase chain,	so	all	the	links	must	be	integrated	and	supported	with	consistent standards. 


Most	people	have	had	major	inefficiencies	in	their	versions	of	this	control process	in	the	larger	contexts	of	life	and	work,	but	the	stresses	of	our	new	world are	blowing	out	the	weak	spots.	The	ubiquity	of	information	access	and	rapidity of	change	happening,	as	you	read	this,	consistently	increase	the	complexity	of your	life	and	work.	Only	having	to	deal	with	a	messy	kitchen	would	be	a	relief! 


Small	leaks,	with	added	pressure,	become	big	ones.	One	missed	e-mail, untracked	commitment,	or	decision	avoided	can	have	hugely	magnified consequences.	Because	the	volume	of	pertinent	content	is	not	diminishing	or	the input	slowing	down,	avoiding	getting	a	grip	on	the	martial	art	of	workflow mastery	will	be	at	your	own	peril. 


Most	people	have	major	weaknesses	in	their	(1)	 
capture
	process.	Most	of their	commitments	to	do	something	are	still	in	their	head.	The	number	of	coulds, shoulds,	might-want-tos,	and	ought-tos	they	generate	in	their	minds	are	way	out beyond	what	they	have	recorded	anywhere	else. 


Many	have	collected	lots	of	things	but	haven’t	(2)	 
clarified
	exactly	what	they represent	or	decided	what	action,	if	any,	to	take	about	them.	Random	lists	strewn everywhere,	meeting	notes,	vague	to-dos	on	Post-its	on	their	refrigerator	or computer	screens	or	in	their	Tasks	function	in	a	digital	tool—all	lie	not	acted	on


and	numbing	to	the	psyche	in	their	effect.	Those	lists	alone	often	create	more stress	than	they	relieve. 


Others	make	good	decisions	about	stuff	in	the	moment	but	lose	the	value	of that	thinking	because	they	don’t	efficiently	(3)	 
organize
	the	results.	They determined	they	should	talk	to	their	boss	about	something,	but	a	reminder	of	that lies	only	in	the	dark	recesses	of	their	mind,	unavailable	in	the	appropriate context,	in	a	trusted	format,	when	they	could	use	it. 


Still	others	have	good	systems	but	don’t	(4)	 
reflect	
 on	the	contents consistently	enough	to	keep	them	functional.	They	may	have	lists,	plans,	and various	checklists	available	to	them	(created	by	capturing,	clarifying,	and organizing),	but	they	don’t	keep	them	current	or	access	them	to	their	advantage. 


Many	people	don’t	look	ahead	at	their	own	calendars	consistently	enough	to	stay current	about	upcoming	events	and	deadlines,	and	they	consequently	become victims	of	last-minute	craziness. 


Ask	yourself,	“When	do	I	need	to	see	what,	in	what	form,	to	get	it	off	my	mind?”	You	build	a system	for	function,	not	just	to	have	a	system. 


Finally,	if	any	one	of	these	previous	links	is	weak,	what	someone	is	likely	to choose	to	(5)	 
engage
	in	at	any	point	in	time	may	not	be	the	best	option.	Most decisions	for	action	and	focus	are	driven	by	the	latest	and	loudest	inputs,	and	are based	on	hope	instead	of	trust.	People	have	a	constant	nagging	sense	that	they’re not	working	on	what	they	should	be,	that	they	“don’t	have	time”	for	potentially critical	activities,	and	that	they’re	missing	out	on	the	timeless	sense	of meaningful	doing	that	is	the	essence	of	stress-free	productivity. 


The	dynamics	of	these	five	steps	need	to	be	understood,	and	good	techniques and	tools	implemented	to	facilitate	their	functioning	at	an	optimal	level.	I	have found	it	very	helpful,	if	not	essential,	to	separate	these	stages	as	I	move	through my	day.	There	are	times	when	I	want	only	to	collect	input	and	not	decide	what	to do	with	it	yet.	At	other	times	I	may	just	want	to	process	my	notes	from	a meeting.	Or	I	may	have	just	returned	from	a	big	trip	and	need	to	distribute	and organize	what	I	collected	and	processed	on	the	road.	Then	there	are	times	when	I want	to	review	the	whole	inventory	of	my	work,	or	some	portion	of	it.	And obviously	a	lot	of	my	time	is	spent	merely	doing	something	that	I	need	to	get done. 


I	have	discovered	that	one	of	the	major	reasons	many	people	haven’t	had	a


lot	of	success	with	getting	organized	is	simply	that	they	have	tried	to	do	all	five steps	at	one	time.	Most,	when	they	sit	down	to	make	a	list,	are	trying	to	collect the	“most	important	things”	in	some	order	that	reflects	priorities	and	sequences, without	setting	out	many	(or	any)	real	actions	to	take.	But	if	you	don’t	decide what	needs	to	be	done	about	your	assistant’s	birthday,	because	it’s	“not	that important”	right	now,	that	open	loop	will	take	up	energy	and	prevent	you	from having	a	totally	effective,	clear	focus	on	what’s	important. 


This	chapter	explains	the	five	steps	in	detail.	Chapters	4	through	8	provide	a step-by-step	program	for	implementing	an	airtight	system	for	each	phase,	with lots	of	examples	and	best	practices. 


Capture


It’s	important	to	know	what	needs	to	be	captured	and	how	to	do	that	most effectively	so	you	can	process	it	appropriately.	In	order	for	your	mind	to	let	go of	the	lower-level	task	of	trying	to	hang	on	to	everything,	you	have	to	know	that you	have	truly	captured	everything	that	might	represent	something	you	have	to do	or	at	least	decide	about,	and	that	at	some	point	in	the	near	future	you	will process	and	review	all	of	it. 


Gathering	100	Percent	of	the	“Incompletes” 


In	order	to	eliminate	“holes	in	your	bucket,”	you	need	to	collect	and	gather placeholders	for,	or	representations	of,	all	the	things	you	consider	incomplete	in your	world—that	is,	anything	personal	or	professional,	big	or	little,	of	urgent	or minor	importance,	that	you	think	ought	to	be	different	than	it	currently	is	and that	you	have	any	level	of	internal	commitment	to	changing. 


Many	of	the	things	you	have	to	do	are	being	collected	 
for
	you	as	you	read this.	Mail	is	coming	into	your	various	mailboxes—physical	and	virtual.	You’re likely	still	getting	packages	and	letters	at	home.	Physical	stuff	is	still	landing	in your	in-tray	at	work,	along	with	e-mail,	texts,	and	voice	mails	into	your	digital tools.	But	at	the	same	time,	you’ve	been	capturing	things	in	your	environment and	in	your	head	that	don’t	belong	where	they	are,	the	way	they	are,	for	all eternity.	Even	though	it	may	not	be	as	obviously	“in	your	face”	as	your	e-mail, the	stuff	still	requires	some	kind	of	resolution—a	loop	to	be	closed,	something	to


be	done.	Strategy	ideas	loitering	in	a	notebook,	“dead”	gadgets	in	your	desk drawers	that	need	to	be	fixed	or	thrown	away,	and	out-of-date	magazines	on your	coffee	table	all	fall	into	this	category	of	stuff. 


 
A	task	left	undone	remains	undone	in	two	places—at	the	actual	location	of	the	task,	and	inside
 
your	head.	Incomplete	tasks	in	your	head	consume	the	energy	of	your	attention	as	they	gnaw	at
 
your	conscience. 


 
—Brahma	Kumaris


As	soon	as	you	attach	a	“should,”	“need	to,”	or	“ought	to”	to	an	item,	it becomes	an	incomplete.	Decisions	you	still	need	to	make	about	whether	or	not you	are	going	to	do	something,	for	example,	are	already	incompletes.	This includes	all	of	your	I’m-going-tos,	in	which	you’ve	decided	to	do	something	but haven’t	started	moving	on	it	yet.	And	it	certainly	includes	all	pending	and	in-progress	items,	as	well	as	those	things	on	which	you’ve	done	everything	you’re ever	going	to	do	except	acknowledge	that	you’re	finished	with	them. 


In	order	to	manage	this	inventory	of	open	loops	appropriately,	you	need	to capture	it	into	“containers”	that	hold	items	in	abeyance	until	you	have	a	few moments	to	decide	what	they	are	and	what,	if	anything,	you’re	going	to	do	about them.	Then	you	must	empty	these	containers	regularly	to	ensure	that	they	remain viable	capture	tools. 


Basically,	everything	potentially	meaningful	to	you	is	already	being collected,	in	the	larger	sense.	If	it’s	not	being	directly	managed	in	a	trusted external	system	of	yours,	then	it’s	resident	somewhere	in	your	mental	space.	The fact	that	you	haven’t	put	an	item	in	your	in-tray	doesn’t	mean	you	haven’t	got	it. 


But	we’re	talking	here	about	making	sure	everything	you	need	is	collected somewhere	other	than	in	your	head. 


The	Capture	Tools


There	are	several	types	of	tools,	both	low-	and	high-tech,	that	can	be	used	to collect	your	incompletes.	The	following	can	all	serve	as	versions	of	an	in-tray, capturing	self-generated	input	as	well	as	information	from	external	sources: Physical	in-tray


Paper-based	note-taking	devices


Digital/audio	note-taking	devices


E-mail	and	text	messaging


The	Physical	In-Tray


The	standard	plastic,	wood,	leather,	or	wire	tray	has	for	years	been	the	most common	tool	for	collecting	paper-based	and	physical	materials	that	need	some sort	of	processing:	mail,	magazines,	meeting	notes,	corporate	reports,	tickets, receipts,	flash	drives,	business	cards—even	flashlights	with	dead	batteries! 


Writing	Paper	and	Pads


Loose-leaf	and	bound	notebooks,	note	cards,	and	paper	pads	of	all	shapes	and sizes	work	fine	for	collecting	random	ideas,	input,	things	to	do,	and	so	on. 


Whatever	fits	your	taste	and	logistical	needs. 


Digital	and	Voice	Note	Taking


Computers,	tablets,	smartphones,	and	all	kinds	of	new	mobile	tech	gadgetry emerging	daily	can	be	used	for	capturing	notes	for	later	processing,	preserving an	interim	record	of	things	you	need	to	remember	to	deal	with. 


E-mail	and	Texting


If	you’re	wired	to	the	rest	of	the	world	through	e-mail	and	texting,	your	software contains	some	sort	of	holding	area	for	incoming	messages	and	files,	where	they can	be	stored	until	they	are	viewed,	read,	and	processed. 


Technology	Integration


The	evolution	of	the	digital	world	has	made	it	increasingly	possible	to	integrate these	various	channels	automatically.	Written	notes	from	paper	and	whiteboards can	be	instantly	recorded,	recognized,	and	funneled	into	software	storage.	Voice messages	can	be	recorded,	digitized,	and	printed	out.	You	can	text	an	idea	to your	e-mail	from	your	mobile	device. 


Whether	high-tech	or	low-tech,	all	of	the	tools	and	functions	I’ve	described


serve	similarly	as	in-trays,	capturing	potentially	meaningful	information, commitments,	ideas,	and	agreements	for	action. 


The	Success	Factors	for	Capturing


Unfortunately,	merely	having	an	in-tray	doesn’t	make	it	functional.	Most	people do	have	collection	devices	of	some	sort,	but	usually	they’re	more	or	less	out	of control	or	seriously	underutilized.	Let’s	examine	the	three	requirements	to	make the	capturing	phase	work:


Get	It	All	Out	of	Your	Head


 
Get	a	purge	for	your	brain.	It	will	do	better	than	for	your	stomach. 


 
—Michel	Eyquem	de	Montaigne


If	you’re	still	trying	to	keep	track	of	too	many	things	in	your	mental	space,	you likely	won’t	be	motivated	to	use	and	empty	your	in-trays	with	integrity.	Most people	are	relatively	careless	about	these	tools	because	they	know	they	don’t represent	discrete,	whole	systems	anyway;	there’s	an	incomplete	set	of	things	in their	in-tray	and	an	incomplete	set	in	their	mind,	and	they’re	not	getting	a	real payoff	from	either	one,	so	their	thinking	goes.	It’s	like	trying	to	play	pinball	on	a machine	that	has	big	holes	in	the	table,	so	the	balls	keep	falling	out:	there’s	little motivation	to	keep	playing	the	game. 


Keep	everything	 
in	
 your	head	or	 
out	
 of	your	head.	If	it’s	in	between,	you	won’t	trust	either	one. 


These	collection	tools	should	become	part	of	your	lifestyle.	Keep	them	close by	so	no	matter	where	you	are	you	can	collect	a	potentially	valuable	thought—


think	of	them	as	being	as	indispensable	as	your	toothbrush	or	your	driver’s license	or	your	glasses.	The	sense	of	trust	that	nothing	possibly	useful	will	get lost	will	give	you	the	freedom	to	have	many	more	good	ideas. 


Minimize	the	Number	of	Capture	Locations


You	should	have	as	many	in-trays	as	you	need	and	as	few	as	you	can	get	by with.	You	need	this	function	to	be	available	to	you	in	every	context,	since	things you’ll	want	to	capture	may	show	up	almost	anywhere.	If	you	have	too	many collection	zones,	however,	you	won’t	be	able	to	process	them	easily	or consistently. 


Funnel	all	potentially	meaningful	inputs	through	minimal	channels,	directed	to	you	for	easily accessed	review	and	assessment	about	their	nature. 


An	excess	of	collection	buckets	can	easily	happen	in	both	the	low-tech	and hi-tech	arenas.	There	is	a	real	improvement	opportunity	for	most	people	on	the low-tech	side,	primarily	in	the	areas	of	note	taking	and	physical	in-tray collection.	Written	notes	need	to	be	corralled	and	processed	instead	of	left	lying embedded	in	stacks,	notebooks,	and	drawers.	Paper	and	physical	materials	need to	be	funneled	into	physical	in-trays	instead	of	being	scattered	over	myriad	piles in	all	the	available	corners	of	the	world.	On	the	high-tech	side,	potential	sources of	input	for	stuff	to	be	assessed	and	processed	have	proliferated	tremendously, with	the	advent	of	social	media,	multiple	connected	devices,	and	the	ubiquity	of e-mail.	People	now	often	have	more	than	one	e-mail	account,	are	participating	in at	least	one	if	not	several	social	media	worlds,	and	operate	with	numerous	digital devices.	Paradoxically,	the	tendency	to	accumulate	a	huge	backlog	of	random inputs	to	deal	with,	and	the	number	of	people	troubled	with	that,	have	increased dramatically,	as	the	digital	revolution	has	“streamlined”	our	lives. 


Implementing	standard	tools	and	procedures	for	capturing	ideas	and	input will	become	more	and	more	critical	as	your	life	and	work	become	more sophisticated.	As	you	proceed	in	your	career,	for	instance,	you’ll	probably	notice that	your	best	ideas	about	work	will	not	come	to	you	 
at
	work.	The	ability	to leverage	that	thinking	with	good	collection	devices	that	are	always	at	hand	is	key to	staying	on	top	of	your	world. 


Empty	the	Capture	Tools	Regularly


The	final	success	factor	for	capturing	should	be	obvious:	if	you	don’t	empty	and process	the	stuff	you’ve	collected,	your	tools	aren’t	serving	any	function	other


than	the	storage	of	amorphous	material.	Emptying	the	contents	does	not	mean that	you	have	to	finish	what’s	there;	it	just	means	that	you	have	to	decide	more specifically	what	it	is	and	what	should	be	done	with	it,	and	if	it’s	still	unfinished, organize	it	into	your	system.	You	must	get	it	out	of	the	container.	You	don’t leave	it	or	put	it	back	into	“in”!	Not	emptying	your	in-tray	is	like	having	garbage cans	and	mailboxes	that	no	one	ever	dumps	or	deals	with—you	just	have	to	keep buying	new	ones	to	hold	an	eternally	accumulating	volume. 


Blockage	in	the	flow	of	anything	undermines	the	ability	to	be	present,	fresh,	and	creative	in	that arena. 


In	order	to	get	“in”	to	empty,	however,	an	integrated	life-management	system must	be	in	place.	Too	much	stuff	is	left	piled	in	in-trays	(physical	and	digital) because	of	a	lack	of	effective	systems	“downstream”	from	there.	It	often	seems easier	to	leave	things	in	“in”	when	you	know	you	have	to	do	something	about them	but	can’t	do	it	right	then.	The	in-tray,	especially	for	paper	and	e-mail,	is	the best	that	many	people	can	do	in	terms	of	organization—at	least	they	know	that 
somewhere
	in	there	is	a	reminder	of	something	they	still	have	to	do. 


Unfortunately,	that	safety	net	is	lost	when	the	piles	get	out	of	control	or	the inventory	of	e-mails	gets	too	extensive	to	be	viewed	on	one	screen. 


When	you	master	the	next	two	steps	and	know	how	to	process	and	organize your	inputs	and	incompletes	easily	and	rapidly,	“in”	can	return	to	its	original function.	Let’s	move	on	to	how	to	get	those	in-trays	and	e-mail	systems	empty without	necessarily	having	to	do	the	work	now. 


Clarify


Teaching	them	the	item-by-item	thinking	required	to	get	their	collection containers	empty	is	perhaps	the	most	critical	improvement	I	have	made	for virtually	all	the	people	I’ve	worked	with.	When	the	head	of	a	major	department in	a	global	corporation	had	finished	processing	all	her	open	items	with	me,	she sat	back	in	awe	and	told	me	that	though	she	had	been	able	to	relax	about	what meetings	to	go	to	thanks	to	her	trust	in	her	calendar,	she	had	never	felt	that	same relief	about	all	the	many	other	aspects	of	her	job,	which	we	had	just	clarified together.	The	actions	and	information	she	needed	to	be	reminded	of	were	now


identified	and	entrusted	to	a	concrete	system. 


 
It	is	better	to	be	wrong	than	to	be	vague. 


 
—Freeman	Dyson


What	do	you	need	to	ask	yourself	(and	answer)	about	each	e-mail,	text,	voice mail,	memo,	page	of	meeting	notes,	or	self-generated	idea	that	comes	your	way? 


This	is	the	component	of	input	management	that	forms	the	basis	for	your personal	organization.	Many	people	try	to	get	organized	but	make	the	mistake	of doing	it	with	incomplete	batches	of	stuff.	You	can’t	organize	what’s	incoming—


you	can	only	capture	it	and	process	it.	Instead,	you	organize	the	actions	you’ll need	to	take	based	on	the	decisions	you’ve	made	about	what	needs	to	be	done. 


The	whole	deal—both	the	 
capturing
	and	 
organizing
	phases—is	represented	in the	center	“trunk”	of	the	decision-tree	model	shown	here. 


What	Is	It? 


This	is	not	a	dumb	question.	We’ve	talked	about	stuff.	And	we’ve	talked	about collection	buckets.	But	we	haven’t	discussed	what	stuff	is	and	what	to	do	about it.	For	example,	many	of	the	items	that	tend	to	leak	out	of	our	personal organizing	systems	are	amorphous	forms	that	we	receive	from	the	government or	from	our	company—do	we	actually	need	to	do	something	about	them?	And what	about	that	e-mail	from	human	resources,	letting	us	know	that	blah-blah about	the	blah-blah	is	now	the	policy	of	blah-blah?	I’ve	unearthed	piles	of messages	in	stacks	and	desk	drawers	that	were	tossed	there	because	the	client didn’t	take	just	a	few	seconds	to	figure	out	what,	in	fact,	the	communication	or document	was	really	about.	Which	is	why	the	next	decision	is	critical. 




WORKFLOW	DIAGRAM—PROCESSING


Is	It	Actionable? 


There	are	two	possible	answers	for	this:	
yes
	and	
no
. 


 
No	Action	Required	
 If	the	answer	is	
no
,	there	are	three	possibilities: These	three	categories	can	themselves	be	managed;	we’ll	get	into	that	in	a later	chapter.	For	now,	suffice	it	to	say	that	you	need	a	wastebasket	and	<Del> key	for	trash,	a	“tickler”	file	or	calendar	for	material	that’s	incubating,	and	a good	filing	system	for	reference	information. 


 
Actionable	
 This	is	the	
yes
	group	of	items,	stuff	about	which	something	needs	to be	done.	Typical	examples	range	from	an	e-mail	requesting	a	summary	of	the speech	you’ve	agreed	to	give	at	a	luncheon	to	the	notes	in	your	in-tray	from	your face-to-face	meeting	with	the	group	vice	president	about	a	significant	new project	that	involves	hiring	an	outside	consultant. 


Two	things	need	to	be	determined	about	each	actionable	item:


 
It	does	not	take	much	strength	to	do	things,	but	it	requires	a	great	deal	of	strength	to	decide
 
what	to	do. 


 
—Elbert	Hubbard


 
If	It’s	About	a	Project	.	.	. 
 You	need	to	capture	that	outcome	on	a	“Projects”	list. 


That	will	be	the	stake	in	the	ground	that	will	keep	reminding	you	that	you	have an	open	loop	until	it	is	finished.	A	Weekly	Review	of	the	list	(see	page	
50
)	will bring	this	item	back	to	you	as	something	that’s	still	outstanding.	It	will	stay	fresh and	alive	in	your	management	system	(versus	your	head)	until	it	is	completed	or eliminated. 


 
What’s	the	Next	Action? 
 This	is	the	critical	question	for	anything	you’ve captured;	if	you	answer	it	appropriately,	you’ll	have	the	key	substantive	thing	to organize.	The	“next	action”	is	the	next	physical,	visible	activity	that	needs	to	be engaged	in,	in	order	to	move	the	current	reality	of	this	thing	toward	completion. 


Some	examples	of	next	actions	might	be:


Call	Fred	re:	name	and	number	of	the	repair	shop	he	mentioned. 


Draft	thoughts	for	the	budget-meeting	agenda. 


Talk	to	Angela	about	the	filing	system	we	need	to	set	up. 


Research	Internet	for	local	watercolor	classes. 


These	are	all	real	physical	activities	that	need	to	happen.	Reminders	of	these will	become	the	primary	grist	for	the	mill	of	your	personal	productivity-management	system. 


 
Do	It,	Delegate	It,	or	Defer	It	
 Once	you’ve	decided	on	the	next	action,	you	have three	options:


 
1.	Do	it. 
	If	an	action	will	take	less	than	two	minutes,	it	should	be	 
done
	at	the moment	it	is	defined. 


 
2.	Delegate	it. 
	If	the	action	will	take	longer	than	two	minutes,	ask	yourself, Am	I	the	right	person	to	do	this?	If	the	answer	is	no,  
delegate
	it	to	the appropriate	entity. 


 
3.	Defer	it, 
	If	the	action	will	take	longer	than	two	minutes,	and	you	are	the right	person	to	do	it,	you	will	have	to	 
defer
	acting	on	it	until	later	and	track	it	on one	or	more	“Next	Actions”	lists. 


Organize


Being	organized	means	simply	that	where	something	is	matches	what	it	means	to	you. 


The	outer	ring	of	the	workflow	diagram	shows	the	eight	discrete	categories	of reminders	and	materials	that	will	result	from	your	processing	all	your	stuff. 


Together	they	make	up	a	total	system	for	organizing	just	about	everything	that’s on	your	plate,	or	could	be	added	to	it,	on	a	daily	and	weekly	basis. 


For	nonactionable	items,	the	possible	categories	are	 
trash
,  
	incubation
,  
 
 and 
reference
.  
 
 If	no	action	is	needed	on	something,	you	toss	it,	“tickle”	it	for	later reassessment,	or	file	it	so	you	can	find	the	material	if	you	need	to	refer	to	it	at another	time.	To	manage	actionable	things,	you	will	need	a	 
list	of	projects
, 
storage	or	files	for	project	plans	and	materials
,  
 
 a	 
calendar
,  
 
 a	 
list	of	reminders	of
 
next	actions
,  
 
 and	a	 
list	of	reminders	of	things	you’re	waiting	for
. 


All	of	the	organizational	categories	need	to	be	physically	contained	in	some


form.	When	I	refer	to	“lists,”	I	just	mean	some	sort	of	reviewable	set	of reminders,	which	could	be	lists	on	notebook	paper	or	in	some	computer	program or	even	file	folders	holding	separate	pieces	of	paper	for	each	item.	For	instance, the	list	of	current	projects	could	be	kept	on	a	page	in	a	loose-leaf	planner;	it could	be	held	in	a	category	within	the	Tasks	function	of	a	software	application; or	it	could	be	in	a	simple	physical	file	folder	labeled	“Projects	List.”	Incubating reminders	(such	as	“After	01	March	contact	my	accountant	to	set	up	a	meeting”) may	be	stored	in	a	paper-based	“tickler”	or	“bring-forward”	file	or	in	a	digital calendar	application. 




WORKFLOW	DIAGRAM—ORGANIZING


Projects


I	define	a	project	as	any	desired	result	that	can	be	accomplished	within	a	year that	requires	more	than	one	action	step.	This	means	that	some	rather	small	things you	might	not	normally	call	projects	are	going	to	be	on	your	Projects	list,	as	well as	some	big	ones.	The	reasoning	behind	my	definition	is	that	if	one	step	won’t complete	something,	some	kind	of	goalpost	needs	to	be	set	up	to	remind	you	that there’s	something	still	left	to	do.	If	you	don’t	have	a	placeholder	to	remind	you about	it,	it	will	slip	back	into	your	head.	The	reason	for	the	one-year	time	frame is	that	anything	you	are	committed	to	finish	within	that	scope	needs	to	be reviewed	weekly	to	feel	comfortable	about	its	status.	Another	way	to	think	of this	is	as	a	list	of	open	loops,	no	matter	what	the	size. 


A	Partial	Projects	List


Get	new	staff	person	on	board


Take	August	holiday


Produce	staff	off-site	retreat


Publish	book


Finalize	computer	upgrades


Update	will


Finalize	budgets


Finalize	new	product	offering


Learn	new	CRM	software


Get	reprints	of	HBR	article


Get	a	publicist


Plant	spring	garden


Research	resources	for	video	project


Establish	next	year’s	conference	schedule


Finalize	employment	agreements


Install	new	porch	lighting


Get	a	new	kitchen	table


Enroll	Maria	in	middle	school


Projects	do	not	initially	need	to	be	listed	in	any	particular	order,	by	size,	or by	priority.	They	just	need	to	be	on	a	master	list	so	you	can	review	them regularly	enough	to	ensure	that	appropriate	next	actions	have	been	defined	for each	of	them. 


You	don’t	actually	 
do
	a	project;	you	can	only	do	action	steps	 
related
	to	it. 


When	enough	of	the	right	action	steps	have	been	taken,	some	situation	will	have been	created	that	matches	your	initial	picture	of	the	outcome	closely	enough	that


you	can	call	it	“done.”	The	list	of	projects	is	the	compilation	of	finish	lines	we put	before	us	to	keep	our	next	actions	moving	on	all	tracks	appropriately. 


There	may	be	reasons	to	sort	your	projects	into	different	subcategories,	based upon	different	areas	of	your	focus,	but	initially	creating	a	single	list	of	all	of them	will	make	it	easier	to	customize	your	system	appropriately	as	you	get	more comfortable	with	its	usage. 


Project	Support	Material


For	many	of	your	projects,	you	will	accumulate	relevant	information	that	you will	want	to	organize	by	theme	or	topic	or	project	name.	Your	Projects	list	will be	merely	an	index.	All	of	the	details,	plans,	and	supporting	information	that	you may	need	as	you	work	on	your	various	projects	should	be	contained	in	separate file	folders,	computer	files,	notebooks,	or	binders. 


 
Support	Materials	and	Reference	Files	
 Once	you	have	organized	your	project support	material	by	theme	or	topic,	you	will	probably	find	that	it	is	almost identical	to	your	reference	material	and	could	be	kept	in	the	same	reference	file system	(a	Wedding	file	could	be	kept	in	the	general-reference	files,	for	instance). 


The	only	difference	is	that	in	the	case	of	active	projects,	support	material	may need	to	be	reviewed	on	a	more	consistent	basis	to	ensure	that	all	the	necessary action	steps	are	identified. 


I	usually	recommend	that	people	store	their	support	materials	out	of	sight.	If you	have	a	good	working	reference	file	system	close	enough	at	hand,	you	may find	that	that’s	the	simplest	way	to	organize	them.	There	will	be	times,	though, when	it’ll	be	more	convenient	to	have	the	materials	out	and	instantly	in	view	and available,	especially	if	you’re	working	on	a	hot	project	that	you	need	to	check references	for	several	times	during	the	day.	File	folders	in	wire	standing	holders or	in	stackable	trays	within	easy	reach	can	be	practical	for	this	kind	of	pending paperwork. 


The	digital	world	has	paradoxically	made	organizing	reference	and	support materials	simultaneously	simpler	and	more	complex.	It’s	quick	and	easy	to capture	something	from	somewhere	and	copy	it	somewhere	else,	but	deciding where	it	goes	can	be	daunting,	given	the	plethora	of	parking	places	available	to us	and	the	myriad	ways	that	we	might	want	the	information	available	to	others	as well	as	ourselves.	The	best	practice	is	to	keep	your	digital	reference	world	as simple	as	possible,	and	consistently	reviewed	and	purged. 


The	Next-Action	Categories


As	the	workflow	diagram	makes	clear,	the	next-action	decision	is	central.	That action	needs	to	be	the	next	physical,	visible	behavior,	without	exception,	on every	open	loop. 


Any	less-than-two-minute	actions	that	you	perform,	and	all	other	actions	that have	already	been	completed,	do	not,	of	course,	need	to	be	tracked;	they’re	done. 


What	 
does
	need	to	be	tracked	is	every	action	that	has	to	happen	at	a	specific	time or	on	a	specific	day	(enter	those	on	your	calendar);	those	that	need	to	be	done	as soon	as	they	can	(add	these	to	your	Next	Actions	lists);	and	all	those	that	you	are waiting	for	others	to	do	(put	these	on	a	Waiting	For	list). 


Calendar


Reminders	of	actions	you	need	to	take	fall	into	two	categories:	those	about things	that	have	to	happen	on	a	specific	day	or	time,	and	those	about	things	that just	need	to	get	done	as	soon	as	possible.	Your	calendar	handles	the	first	type	of reminder. 


Three	things	go	on	your	calendar:


time-specific	actions; 


day-specific	actions;	and


day-specific	information


 
Time-Specific	Actions	
 This	is	a	fancy	name	for	appointments.	Often	the	next action	to	be	taken	on	a	project	is	attending	a	meeting	that	has	been	set	up	to discuss	it.	Simply	tracking	that	on	the	calendar	is	sufficient. 


 
Day-Specific	Actions	
 These	are	things	that	you	need	to	do	sometime	on	a	certain day,	but	not	necessarily	at	a	specific	time.	Perhaps	you	told	Mioko	you	would call	her	on	Friday	to	check	that	the	report	you’re	sending	her	is	OK.	She	won’t have	the	report	until	Thursday,	and	she’s	leaving	the	country	on	Saturday,	so Friday	is	the	time	window	for	taking	the	action—but	anytime	Friday	will	be	fine. 


That	should	be	tracked	on	the	calendar	for	Friday	but	not	tied	to	any	particular time	slot—it	should	just	go	on	the	day.	It’s	useful	to	have	a	calendar	on	which you	can	note	both	time-specific	and	day-specific	actions. 


 
Day-Specific	Information	
 The	calendar	is	also	the	place	to	keep	track	of	things you	want	to	know	about	on	specific	days—not	necessarily	actions	you’ll	have	to take	but	rather	information	that	may	be	useful	on	a	certain	date.	This	might include	directions	for	appointments,	activities	that	other	people	(family	or	staff) will	be	involved	in	then,	or	events	of	interest.	It’s	helpful	to	put	short-term tickler	information	here,	too,	such	as	a	reminder	to	call	someone	after	he	or	she returns	from	vacation.	This	is	also	where	you	would	want	to	park	important reminders	about	when	something	might	be	due,	or	when	something	needs	to	be started	(in	case	it	hasn’t	been	yet),	given	a	determined	lead	time. 


 
Blessed	are	the	flexible,	for	they	shall	not	be	bent	out	of	shape. 


 
—Michael	McGriffy,	M.D. 


 
No	More	“Daily	To-Do”	Lists	on	the	Calendar	
 Those	three	things	are	what	go on	the	calendar,	and	nothing	else!	This	might	be	heresy	to	past-century	time-management	training,	which	almost	universally	taught	that	the	daily	to-do	list	is key.	But	such	lists	embedded	on	a	calendar	don’t	work,	for	two	reasons. 


First,	constant	new	input	and	shifting	tactical	priorities	reconfigure	daily work	so	consistently	that	it’s	virtually	impossible	to	nail	down	to-do	items	ahead of	time.	Having	a	working	game	plan	as	a	reference	point	is	always	useful,	but	it must	be	able	to	be	renegotiated	at	any	moment.	Trying	to	keep	a	list	on	the calendar,	which	must	then	be	reentered	on	another	day	if	items	don’t	get	done,	is demoralizing	and	a	waste	of	time.	The	Next	Actions	lists	I	advocate	will	hold	all of	those	action	reminders,	even	the	most	time-sensitive	ones.	And	they	won’t have	to	be	rewritten	daily. 


Second,	if	there’s	something	on	a	daily	to-do	list	that	doesn’t	absolutely	 
have
 to	get	done	that	day,	it	will	dilute	the	emphasis	on	the	things	that	truly	do.	If	I 
have
	to	call	Mioko	on	Friday	because	that’s	the	only	day	I	can	reach	her,	but then	I	add	five	other,	less	important	or	less	time-sensitive	calls	to	my	to-do	list, when	the	day	gets	crazy	I	may	never	call	Mioko.	My	brain	will	have	to	take	back the	reminder	that	that’s	the	one	phone	call	I	won’t	get	another	chance	at.	That’s not	utilizing	the	system	appropriately.	The	way	I	look	at	it,	the	calendar	should be	sacred	territory.	If	you	write	something	there,	it	must	get	done	that	day	or	not at	all.	The	only	rewriting	should	be	for	changed	appointments. 


That	said,	there’s	absolutely	nothing	wrong	with	creating	a	quick,	informal, 


short	list	of	“if	I	have	time,	I’d	really	like	to	.	.	.”	kinds	of	things,	picked	from your	Next	Actions	inventory.	It	just	should	not	be	confused	with	your	“have-tos,”	and	it	should	be	treated	lightly	enough	to	discard	or	change	quickly	as	the inevitable	surprises	of	the	day	unfold. 


The	“Next	Actions”	List(s)


So	where	do	your	entire	action	reminders	go?	On	Next	Actions	lists,	which, along	with	the	calendar,	are	at	the	heart	of	daily	action-management	organization and	orientation. 


Any	longer-than-two-minute,	non-delegatable	action	you	have	identified needs	to	be	tracked	somewhere.	“Call	Jim	Smith	re:	budget	meeting,”	“E-mail family	update	to	friends,”	and	“Draft	ideas	re:	the	annual	sales	conference”	are all	the	kinds	of	action	reminders	that	need	to	be	kept	in	appropriate	lists,	to	be assessed	as	options	for	what	we	will	do	at	any	point	in	time. 


 
Everything	should	be	made	as	simple	as	possible,	but	no	simpler. 


 
—Albert	Einstein


If	you	have	only	twenty	or	thirty	of	these,	it	may	be	fine	to	keep	them	all	on one	list	labeled	“Next	Actions,”	which	you’ll	review	whenever	you	have	any free	time.	For	most	of	us,	however,	the	number	is	more	likely	to	be	fifty	to	150. 


In	that	case	it	makes	sense	to	subdivide	your	Next	Actions	list	into	categories, such	as	Calls	to	make	when	you	have	a	window	of	time	and	your	phone,	or Computer	action	items	to	see	as	options	when	you’re	at	that	device. 


Nonactionable	Items


You	need	well-organized,	discrete	systems	to	handle	things	that	require	no action	as	well	as	those	that	do.	No-action	systems	fall	into	three	categories: trash,	incubation,	and	reference. 


Trash


Trash	should	be	self-evident.	Throw	away,	shred,	or	recycle	anything	that	has	no potential	future	action	or	reference	value.	If	you	leave	this	stuff	mixed	in	with other	categories,	it	will	seriously	undermine	the	system	and	your	clarity	in	the environment. 


Incubation


There	are	two	other	groups	of	things	besides	trash	that	require	no	immediate action	but	that	you	will	want	to	keep.	Here,	again,	it’s	critical	that	you	separate nonactionable	from	actionable	items;	otherwise	you	will	tend	to	go	numb	to	your piles,	stacks,	and	lists	and	not	know	where	to	start	or	what	needs	to	be	done. 


Say	you	read	something	in	a	newsletter	that	gives	you	an	idea	for	a	project you	might	want	to	do	someday,	but	not	now.	You’ll	want	to	be	reminded	of	it again	later	so	you	can	reassess	the	option	of	doing	something	about	it	in	the future.	Or	you	get	a	notice	about	the	upcoming	season	of	your	local	symphony, and	you	see	that	the	program	that	really	interests	you	is	still	four	months	away—


too	distant	for	you	to	move	on	it	yet	(you’re	not	sure	what	your	travel	schedule will	be	that	far	out).	But	if	you	are	in	town,	you’d	like	to	go.	What	should	you	do about	that? 


There	are	two	kinds	of	incubation	tools	that	could	work	for	this	kind	of	thing: Someday/Maybe	lists	and	a	tickler	system. 


 
Someday/Maybe	
 It	can	be	useful	and	inspiring	to	maintain	an	ongoing	list	of things	you	might	want	to	do	at	some	point	but	not	now.	This	is	the	“parking	lot” 


for	projects	that	would	be	impossible	to	move	on	at	present	but	that	you	don’t want	to	forget	about	entirely.	You’d	like	to	be	reminded	of	the	possibility	at regular	intervals. 


Typical	Partial	Someday/Maybe	List


Get	a	sailboat


Learn	Spanish


Take	a	watercolor	class


Renovate	the	kitchen


Build	a	lap	pool


Take	a	balloon	ride


Build	a	wine	cellar


Spend	a	month	in	Tuscany


Create	my	own	Web	page


Set	up	a	foundation	for	kids


Get	a	piano


Publish	my	memoir


Get	scuba	certification


Learn	to	tango


Learn	to	throw	pottery


Give	a	neighborhood	party


Build	a	koi	pond


These	items	are	of	the	nature	of	“projects	I	might	want	to	do,	but	not	now	.	.	. 


but	I’d	like	to	be	reminded	of	them	regularly.”	You	must	review	this	list periodically	if	you’re	going	to	get	the	most	value	from	it.	I	suggest	you	include	a scan	of	the	contents	in	your	Weekly	Review	(see	page	
50
). 


You’ll	probably	have	some	other	types	of	information	that	are	similar	to Someday/Maybe	but	that	probably	need	a	review	only	when	you	have	an	urge	to engage	in	a	particular	kind	of	activity.	These	would	be	lists	such	as: Books	to	read


Wines	to	taste


Recipes	to	try


Movies	to	rent


Weekend	trips	to	take


Things	my	kids	might	like	to	do


Seminars	to	take


Web	sites	to	surf


These	kinds	of	reminders	can	greatly	expand	your	options	for	creative exploration.	Having	an	organizational	tool	that	allows	you	to	easily	make	lists such	as	these,	ad	hoc,	is	quite	worthwhile. 


 
Tickler	System	
 A	second	type	of	things	to	incubate	are	those	you	don’t	want	or need	to	be	reminded	of	until	some	designated	time	in	the	future.	A	most	elegant version	of	holding	for	review	of	this	nature	is	the	tickler	file,	sometimes	also referred	to	as	a	“suspense,”	“follow-on,”	or	“perpetual”	file.	This	is	a	system	that allows	you	to	almost	literally	mail	something	to	yourself,	for	receipt	on	some designated	date	in	the	future. 


Your	calendar	can	serve	the	same	function.	You	might	remind	yourself	on your	calendar	for	March	15,	for	example,	that	your	taxes	are	due	in	a	month;	or for	September	12,	that	 
Swan	Lake
	will	be	presented	by	the	Bolshoi	at	the	Civic Auditorium	in	six	weeks. 


For	further	details,	refer	to	chapter	7. 


Reference	Material


Many	things	that	come	your	way	require	no	action	but	have	intrinsic	value	as information.	You	will	want	to	keep	and	be	able	to	retrieve	these	as	needed.	They can	be	stored	in	paper-based	or	digital	form. 


Paper-based	material—anything	from	the	menu	for	a	local	takeout	deli	to	the plans,	drawings,	and	vendor	information	for	a	landscape	project—is	best	stored in	efficient	physical	or	digital	retrieval	systems.	These	can	range	from	pages	in	a loose-leaf	planner	or	notebook,	for	a	list	of	favorite	restaurants	or	the	phone numbers	of	members	of	a	school	committee,	to	whole	file	cabinets	dedicated	to the	due-diligence	paperwork	for	a	corporate	merger.	Though	more	and	more information	is	showing	up	in	digital	form,	print	versions	are	at	times	still	an effective	way	for	it	to	be	stored	and	reviewed. 


Electronic	storage	can	include	everything	from	cloud-based	data	storage	to archive	folders	in	your	communications	software. 


The	most	important	thing	to	remember	here	is	that	reference	should	be exactly	that—information	that	can	be	 
easily
	referred	to	when	required. 


Reference	systems	generally	take	two	forms:	(1)	topic-	and	area-specific	storage, and	(2)	general-reference	files.	The	first	types	usually	define	themselves	in	terms of	how	they	are	stored—for	example,	a	file	drawer	dedicated	to	contracts,	by date;	a	drawer	containing	only	confidential	employee-compensation	information; a	series	of	cabinets	for	closed	legal	cases	that	might	need	to	be	consulted	for future	trials;	or	a	customer	relations	management	(CRM)	database	for	client	and prospect	histories. 


 
General	Reference	Filing	
 The	second	type	of	reference	system	is	one	that everyone	needs	close	at	hand	for	storing	ad	hoc	information	that	doesn’t	belong in	some	predesigned	larger	category.	You	need	somewhere	to	keep	the instruction	manuals	for	your	kitchenware,	the	handwritten	notes	from	your meeting	about	the	Smith	project,	and	those	yen	you	didn’t	get	to	exchange	at	the end	of	your	most	recent	trip	to	Tokyo	(and	that	you	can	use	when	you	go	back there). 


The	lack	of	a	good	general-reference	file	can	be	one	of	the	biggest bottlenecks	in	implementing	an	efficient	personal	management	system.	If	filing and	storing	isn’t	easy	and	fast	(and	even	fun!),	you’ll	tend	to	stack,	pile,	or digitally	accumulate	things	instead	of	putting	them	away	appropriately.	If	your reference	material	doesn’t	have	nice	clean	edges	to	it,	the	line	between


actionable	and	nonactionable	items	will	blur,	visually	and	psychologically,	and your	mind	will	go	numb	to	the	whole	business.	Establishing	a	good	working system	for	this	category	of	material	is	critical	to	ensuring	stress-free productivity;	we	will	explore	it	in	detail	in	chapter	7. 


Reflect


It’s	one	thing	to	write	down	that	you	need	milk;	it’s	another	to	be	at	the	store	and remember	it.	Likewise,	writing	down	that	you	need	to	call	a	friend	to	find	out how	he’s	doing	after	a	significant	event	in	his	life	and	wish	him	well	is	different from	remembering	it	when	you’re	at	a	phone	and	have	some	discretionary	time. 


You	need	to	be	able	to	step	back	and	review	the	whole	picture	of	your	life and	work	from	a	broader	perspective	as	well	as	drop	down	“into	the	weeds”	of concrete	actions	to	take,	as	needed,	and	at	appropriate	intervals.	For	most	people the	magic	of	workflow	management	is	realized	in	the	consistent	use	of	the reflection	step.	This	is	where,	in	one	important	case,	you	take	a	look	at	all	your outstanding	projects	and	open	loops,	at	what	I	call	Horizon	1	level	(see	
page	55)
, on	a	weekly	basis.	It’s	your	chance	to	scan	all	the	defined	actions	and	options before	you,	thus	radically	increasing	the	efficacy	of	the	choices	you	make	about what	you’re	doing	at	any	point	in	time. 


Your	life	is	more	complex	than	any	single	system	can	describe	or	coordinate, but	the	GTD	methodology	creates	a	coherent	model	for	placeholding	key elements,	which	still	require	attention,	being	kept	current,	and	being	reviewed	in a	coordinated	way.	Most	people	have	some	simple	components	of	this	in	various places,	but	the	contents	and	the	utilization	of	these	are	elementary,	at	best. 


What	to	Review	When


If	you	set	up	a	personal	organization	system	structured	as	I	recommend,	with	a Projects	list,	a	calendar,	Next	Actions	lists,	and	a	Waiting	For	list,	not	much	will be	required	to	maintain	that	system. 


The	item	you’ll	probably	review	most	frequently	is	your	calendar,	which	will remind	you	about	the	“hard	landscape”	for	the	day—that	is,	what	things	truly 
have
	to	be	handled	that	day.	This	doesn’t	mean	that	the	contents	there	are	the most	“important”	in	some	grand	sense—only	that	they	must	get	done.	At	any


point	in	time,	knowing	what	has	to	get	done	and	when	creates	a	terrain	for maneuvering.	It’s	a	good	habit,	as	soon	as	you	conclude	an	action	on	your calendar	(a	meeting,	a	phone	call,	the	final	draft	of	a	report	that’s	due),	to	check and	see	what	else	remains	to	be	done. 


Review	whatever	lists,	overviews,	and	orientation	maps	you	need	to,	as	often	as	you	need	to,	to get	their	contents	off	your	mind. 


After	checking	your	calendar,	you’ll	most	often	turn	to	your	Next	Action lists.	These	hold	the	inventory	of	predefined	actions	that	you	can	take	if	you have	any	discretionary	time	during	the	day.	If	you’ve	organized	them	by	context (At	Home;	At	Computer;	In	Meeting	with	George)	they’ll	come	into	play	only when	those	contexts	are	available. 


Projects,	Waiting	For,	and	Someday/Maybe	lists	need	to	be	reviewed	only	as often	as	you	think	they	have	to	be	in	order	to	stop	you	from	wondering	about them. 


Critical	Success	Factor:	The	Weekly	Review


 
The	affairs	of	life	embrace	a	multitude	of	interest,	and	he	who	reasons	in	any	one	of	them,
 
without	consulting	the	rest,	is	a	visionary	unsuited	to	control	the	business	of	the	world. 


 
—James	Fenimore	Cooper


Everything	that	might	require	action	must	be	reviewed	on	a	frequent	enough basis	to	keep	your	mind	from	taking	back	the	job	of	remembering	and reminding.	In	order	to	trust	the	rapid	and	intuitive	judgment	calls	that	you	make about	actions	from	moment	to	moment,	you	must	consistently	retrench	at	some more	elevated	level.	In	my	experience	(with	thousands	of	people),	that	translates into	a	behavior	critical	for	success:	the	Weekly	Review. 


All	of	your	Projects,	active	project	plans,	and	Next	Actions,	Agendas, Waiting	For,	and	even	Someday/Maybe	lists	should	be	reviewed	once	a	week. 


This	also	gives	you	an	opportunity	to	ensure	that	your	brain	is	clear	and	that	all the	loose	strands	of	the	past	few	days	have	been	captured,	clarified,	and


organized. 


If	you’re	like	most	people,	you’ve	found	that	things	can	get	relatively	out	of control	during	the	course	of	a	few	days	of	operational	intensity.	That’s	to	be expected,	but	it	will	continue	to	increase	in	tandem	with	the	ubiquity	of	your always-on,	connected	world.	You	wouldn’t	want	to	distract	yourself	from	too much	of	the	work	at	hand	in	an	effort	to	stay	totally	“squeaky	clean”	all	the	time. 


But	in	order	to	afford	the	luxury	of	“getting	on	a	roll”	with	confidence,	you’ll probably	need	to	clean	house	and	refresh	the	contents	once	a	week. 


The	Weekly	Review	is	the	time	to:


Gather	and	process	all	your	stuff. 


Review	your	system. 


Update	your	lists. 


Get	clean,	clear,	current,	and	complete. 


You	have	to	use	your	mind	to	get	things	off	your	mind. 


Most	people	don’t	have	a	really	complete	system,	and	they	get	no	real	payoff from	reviewing	things	for	just	that	reason:	their	overview	isn’t	total.	They	still have	a	vague	sense	that	something	may	be	missing.	That’s	why	the	rewards	to	be gained	from	implementing	this	whole	process	are	exponential:	the	more complete	the	system	is,	the	more	you’ll	trust	it.	And	the	more	you	trust	it,	the more	complete	you’ll	be	motivated	to	keep	it.	The	Weekly	Review	is	a	master key	to	maintaining	that	standard. 


Most	people	feel	best	about	their	work	the	week	before	they	go	on	vacation, but	it’s	not	because	of	the	vacation	itself.	What	do	you	do	the	last	week	before you	leave	on	a	big	trip?	You	clean	up,	close	up,	clarify,	organize,	and	renegotiate all	your	agreements	with	yourself	and	others.	You	do	this	so	you	can	relax	and be	present	on	the	beach,	on	the	golf	course,	or	on	the	slopes,	with	nothing	else on	your	mind.	I	suggest	you	do	this	weekly	instead	of	yearly,	so	you	can	bring this	kind	of	“being	present”	to	your	everyday	life. 


Engage


The	basic	purpose	of	this	workflow-management	process	is	to	facilitate	good choices	about	what	you’re	doing	at	any	point	in	time.	At	10:33	a.m.	Monday, deciding	whether	to	call	Sandy,	finish	the	proposal,	or	clean	up	your	e-mails	will always	be	an	intuitive	call,	but	with	the	proper	orientation	you	can	feel	much more	confident	about	your	choices.	You	can	move	from	hope	to	trust	in	your actions,	immediately	increasing	your	energy	and	effectiveness. 


Every	decision	to	act	is	an	intuitive	one.	The	challenge	is	to	migrate	from	 
hoping
	it’s	the	right choice	to	 
trusting	
 it’s	the	right	choice. 


Three	Models	for	Making	Action	Choices


Let’s	assume	for	a	moment	that	you’re	not	resisting	any	of	your	stuff	out	of insecurity	or	procrastination.	There	will	always	be	a	long	list	of	actions	that	you are	not	doing	at	any	given	moment.	So	how	will	you	decide	what	to	do	and	what not	to	do,	and	feel	good	about	both? 


The	answer	is,	by	trusting	your	intuition.	If	you	have	 
captured
,  
	clarified
, 
organized
,  
 
 and	 
reflected
	on	all	your	current	commitments,	you	can	galvanize your	intuitive	judgment	with	some	intelligent	and	practical	thinking	about	your work	and	values. 


There	are	three	models	that	will	be	helpful	for	you	to	incorporate	in	your decision	making	about	what	to	do.	They	won’t	tell	you	answers—whether	you call	Mario,	e-mail	your	son	at	school,	or	just	have	an	informal	conversation	with your	secretary—but	they	will	assist	you	in	framing	your	options	more intelligently.	And	that’s	something	that	the	simple	time-	and	priority-management	panaceas	can’t	do. 


1.	The	Four-Criteria	Model	for	Choosing	Actions	in	the	Moment
 At	3:22	on	Wednesday,	how	do	you	choose	what	to	do?	At	that	moment	there are	four	criteria	you	can	apply,	in	this	order:	context,	time	available,	energy available,	and	priority. 


The	first	three	describe	the	constraints	within	which	you	continually	operate, and	the	fourth	provides	the	hierarchical	values	to	ascribe	to	your	actions. 


 
Context	
 You	are	always	constrained	by	what	you	have	the	capability	to	do	at	this time.	A	few	actions	can	be	done	anywhere	(such	as	drafting	ideas	about	a	project with	pen	and	paper),	but	most	require	a	specific	location	(at	home,	at	your office)	or	having	some	productivity	tool	at	hand,	such	as	a	phone	or	a	computer. 


These	are	the	first	factors	that	limit	your	choices	about	what	you	can	do	in	the moment. 


There	is	always	more	to	do	than	you	can	do,	and	you	can	do	only	one	thing	at	a	time.	The	key	is to	feel	as	good	about	what	you’re	 
not
	doing	as	about	what	you	 
are
	doing	at	that	moment. 


 
Time	Available	
 When	do	you	have	to	do	something	else?	Having	a	meeting	in five	minutes	would	prevent	doing	any	actions	that	require	more	time. 


 
Energy	Available	
 How	much	energy	do	you	have?	Some	actions	you	have	to	do require	a	reservoir	of	fresh,	creative	mental	energy.	Others	need	more	physical horsepower.	Some	need	very	little	of	either. 


 
Priority	
 Given	your	context,	time,	and	energy	available,	what	action	remaining of	your	options	will	give	you	the	highest	payoff?	You’re	in	your	office	with	a phone	and	a	computer,	you	have	an	hour,	and	your	energy	is	7.3	on	a	scale	of	10. 


Should	you	call	the	client	back,	work	on	the	proposal,	process	your	e-mails,	or check	in	with	your	spouse	to	see	how	his	or	her	day	is	going? 


This	is	where	you	need	to	access	your	intuition	and	begin	to	rely	on	your judgment	call	in	the	moment.	To	explore	that	concept	further,	let’s	examine	two more	models	for	deciding	what’s	most	important	for	you	to	be	doing. 


2.	The	Threefold	Model	for	Identifying	Daily	Work


When	you’re	getting	things	done,	or	“working”	in	the	universal	sense,	there	are three	different	kinds	of	activities	you	can	be	engaged	in:


Doing	predefined	work


Doing	work	as	it	shows	up


Defining	your	work


 
Doing	Predefined	Work	
 When	you’re	doing	predefined	work,	you’re	working


from	your	Next	Actions	lists	and	calendar—completing	tasks	that	you	have previously	determined	need	to	be	done,	or	managing	your	workflow.	You’re making	the	calls	you	need	to	make,	drafting	ideas	you	want	to	brainstorm, attending	meetings,	or	preparing	a	list	of	things	to	talk	to	your	attorney	about. 


 
Doing	Work	as	It	Shows	Up	
 Often	things	come	up	ad	hoc—unsuspected, unforeseen—that	you	either	have	to	or	choose	to	engage	in	as	they	occur.	For example,	your	partner	walks	into	your	office	and	wants	to	have	a	conversation about	the	new	product	launch,	so	you	talk	to	her	instead	of	doing	all	the	other things	you	could	be	doing.	Every	day	brings	surprises—unplanned-for	things that	just	show	up—and	you’ll	need	to	expend	at	least	some	time	and	energy	on many	of	them.	When	you	follow	these	leads,	you’re	deciding	by	default	that these	things	are	more	important	than	anything	else	you	have	to	do	at	those	times. 


 
Defining	Your	Work	
 Defining	your	work	entails	clearing	up	your	in-tray,	your digital	messages,	and	your	meeting	notes,	and	breaking	down	new	projects	into actionable	steps.	As	you	process	your	inputs,	you’ll	no	doubt	be	taking	care	of some	less-than-two-minute	actions	and	tossing	and	filing	numerous	things (another	version	of	doing	work	as	it	shows	up).	A	good	portion	of	this	activity will	consist	of	identifying	things	that	need	to	get	done	sometime,	but	not	right away.	You’ll	be	adding	to	all	of	your	lists	as	you	go	along. 


Once	you	have	defined	all	your	work,	you	can	trust	that	your	lists	of	things	to do	are	complete.	And	your	context,	time,	and	energy	available	still	allow	you	the option	of	more	than	one	thing	to	do.	The	final	thing	to	consider	is	the	nature	of your	work,	and	its	goals	and	standards. 


3.	The	Six-Level	Model	for	Reviewing	Your	Own	Work


Priorities	should	drive	your	choices,	but	most	models	for	determining	them	are not	reliable	tools	for	much	of	our	real	work	activity.	In	order	to	know	what	your priorities	are,	you	have	to	know	what	your	work	is.	And	there	are	at	least	six different	perspectives	from	which	to	define	that.	To	use	an	appropriate	analogy, the	conversation	has	a	lot	do	with	the	horizon,	or	distance	of	perception. 


Looking	out	from	a	building,	you	will	notice	different	things	from	different floors. 


Horizon	5:	Purpose	and	principles


Horizon	4:	Vision


Horizon	3:	Goals


Horizon	2:	Areas	of	focus	and	accountabilities


Horizon	1:	Current	projects


Ground:	Current	actions


Let’s	start	from	the	bottom	up:


 
Ground:	Current	Actions	
 This	is	the	accumulated	list	of	all	the	actions	you	need to	take—all	the	phone	calls	you	have	to	make,	the	e-mails	you	have	to	respond to,	the	errands	you’ve	got	to	run,	and	the	agendas	you	want	to	communicate	to your	boss	and	your	life	partner.	You’d	probably	have	more	than	a	hundred	of these	items	to	handle	if	you	stopped	the	world	right	now	with	no	more	input from	yourself	or	anyone	else. 


 
Horizon	1:	Current	Projects	
 Generating	most	of	the	actions	that	you	currently have	in	front	of	you	are	the	thirty	to	one	hundred	projects	on	your	plate.	These are	the	relatively	short-term	outcomes	you	want	to	achieve,	such	as	setting	up	a new	home	computer,	organizing	a	sales	conference,	moving	to	a	new headquarters,	and	getting	a	dentist. 


 
Complete	the	projects	you	begin,	fulfill	the	commitments	you	have	made,	live	up	to	your
 
promises—then	both	your	subconscious	and	conscious	selves	can	have	success,	which	leads	to	a
 
feeling	of	fulfillment,	worthiness	and	oneness. 


 
—John-Roger


 
Horizon	2:	Areas	of	Focus	and	Accountabilities	
 You	create	or	accept	your projects	and	actions	because	of	the	roles,	interests,	and	accountabilities	you have.	These	are	the	key	areas	of	your	life	and	work	within	which	you	want	to achieve	results	and	maintain	standards.	Your	job	may	entail	at	least	implicit commitments	for	things	like	strategic	planning,	administrative	support,	staff development,	market	research,	customer	service,	or	asset	management.	And	your personal	life	has	an	equal	number	of	such	focus	arenas:	health,	family,	finances, home	environment,	spirituality,	recreation,	etc.	These	are	not	things	to	finish	but rather	to	use	as	criteria	for	assessing	our	experiences	and	our	engagements,	to maintain	balance	and	sustainability,	as	we	operate	in	our	work	and	our	world. 


Listing	and	reviewing	these	responsibilities	gives	a	more	comprehensive framework	for	evaluating	your	inventory	of	projects. 


 
Horizon	3:	Goals	
 What	you	want	to	be	experiencing	in	various	areas	of	your	life and	work	one	to	two	years	from	now	will	add	another	dimension	to	defining your	work.	Often	meeting	the	goals	and	objectives	of	your	job	will	require	a shift	in	emphasis	of	your	job	focus,	with	new	accountabilities	emerging.	At	this horizon	personally,	too,	there	probably	are	things	you’d	like	to	accomplish	or have	in	place,	which	could	add	importance	to	certain	aspects	of	your	life	and diminish	others. 


 
Horizon	4:	Vision	
 Projecting	three	to	five	years	into	the	future	generates	thinking about	bigger	categories:	organization	strategies,	environmental	trends,	career	and lifestyle	transition	circumstances.	Internal	factors	include	longer-term	career, family,	financial,	and	quality-of-life	aspirations	and	considerations.	Outer-world issues	could	involve	changes	affecting	your	job	and	organization,	such	as technology,	globalization,	market	trends,	and	competition.	Decisions	at	this altitude	could	easily	change	what	your	work	might	look	like	on	many	levels. 


 
Horizon	5:	Purpose	and	Principles	
 This	is	the	big-picture	view.	Why	does	your company	exist?	Why	do	 
you
	exist?	What	really	matters	to	you,	no	matter	what? 


The	primary	purpose	for	anything	provides	the	core	definition	of	what	the	work really	is.	It	is	the	ultimate	job	description.	All	goals,	visions,	objectives,	projects, and	actions	derive	from	this,	and	lead	toward	it. 


These	horizon	analogies	are	somewhat	arbitrary,	and	in	real	life	the	important conversations	you	will	have	about	your	focus	and	your	priorities	may	not	exactly fit	one	level	or	another.	They	can	provide	a	useful	framework,	however,	to remind	you	of	the	multilayered	nature	of	your	commitments	and	tasks. 


Minute-to-minute	and	day-to-day	you	don’t	have	time	to	think.	You	need	to	have	already thought. 


Obviously	many	factors	must	be	considered	before	you	feel	comfortable	that you	have	made	the	best	decision	about	what	to	do	and	when.	“Setting	priorities” 


in	the	traditional	sense	of	focusing	on	your	long-term	goals	and	values,	though obviously	a	necessary	core	focus,	does	not	provide	a	practical	framework	for	a


vast	majority	of	the	decisions	and	tasks	you	must	engage	in	day	to	day. 


Mastering	the	flow	of	your	work	at	all	the	levels	you	experience	that	work provides	a	much	more	holistic	way	to	get	things	done	and	feel	good	about	it. 


Part	2	of	this	book	will	provide	specific	coaching	about	how	to	use	these models	for	making	action	choices,	and	how	the	best	practices	for	capturing, clarifying,	planning,	organizing,	and	reflecting	all	contribute	to	your	greatest success	with	them. 


3


Getting	Projects	Creatively	Under	Way:	The


Five	Phases	of	Project	Planning


THE	KEY	INGREDIENTS	
of	relaxed	control	are	(1)	clearly	defined	outcomes	(projects) and	the	next	actions	required	to	move	them	toward	closure,	and	(2)	reminders placed	in	a	trusted	system	that	is	reviewed	regularly.	This	is	what	I	call horizontal	focus.	Although	it	may	seem	simple,	the	actual	application	of	the process	can	create	profound	results. 


Enhancing	Vertical	Focus


Horizontal	focus	is	all	you’ll	need	in	most	situations,	most	of	the	time. 


Sometimes,	however,	you	may	need	greater	rigor	and	focus	to	get	a	project	or situation	under	control,	to	identify	a	solution,	or	to	ensure	that	all	the	right	steps have	been	determined.	This	is	where	vertical	focus	comes	in.	Knowing	how	to think	productively	in	this	more	vertical	way	and	how	to	integrate	the	results	into your	personal	system	is	the	second	powerful	behavior	set	needed	for	knowledge work. 


 
You’ve	got	to	think	about	the	big	things	while	you’re	doing	small	things,	so	that	all	the	small
 
things	go	in	the	right	direction. 


 
—Alvin	Toffler


This	kind	of	thinking	doesn’t	have	to	be	elaborate.	Most	of	the	thinking you’ll	need	to	do	is	informal,	what	I	call	back-of-the-envelope	planning—the


kind	of	thing	you	do	literally	on	the	back	of	an	envelope	or	napkin	in	a	coffee shop	with	a	colleague	as	you’re	hashing	out	the	agenda	and	structure	of	a	sales presentation.	In	my	experience	this	tends	to	be	the	most	productive	kind	of planning	you	can	do	in	terms	of	your	output	relative	to	the	energy	you	put	into	it. 


True,	once	in	a	while	everyone	may	need	to	develop	a	more	formal	structure	or plan	to	clarify	components,	sequences,	or	priorities.	And	more	detailed	outlines will	also	be	necessary	to	coordinate	more	complex	situations—if	teams	need	to collaborate	about	various	project	pieces,	for	example,	or	if	business	plans	need to	be	drafted	to	convince	an	investor	you	know	what	you’re	doing.	But	as	a general	rule,	you	can	be	pretty	creative	with	nothing	more	than	a	pen	and	piece of	paper. 


The	goal	is	to	get	projects	and	situations	sufficiently	clear	and	under	control	to	get	them	off	your mind,	and	not	to	lose	any	potentially	useful	ideas. 


The	greatest	need	I’ve	seen	in	project	thinking	in	the	professional	world	is not	for	more	formal	models;	usually	the	people	who	need	those	models	already have	them	or	can	get	them	as	part	of	an	academic	or	professional	curriculum. 


Instead,	I’ve	found	the	biggest	gap	to	be	the	lack	of	a	project-focusing	model	for the	rest	of	us.	We	need	ways	to	validate	and	support	our	thinking,	no	matter	how informal.	Formal	planning	sessions	and	high-horsepower	planning	tools	(such	as project	management	software)	can	certainly	be	useful	at	times,	but	too	often	the participants	in	a	meeting	will	need	to	have	 
another
	meeting—a	back-of-the-envelope	(or	whiteboard)	session—to	actually	get	a	piece	of	work	fleshed	out and	under	control.	More	formal	and	structured	meetings	also	tend	to	skip	over	at least	one	critical	issue,	such	as	why	the	project	is	being	done	in	the	first	place. 


Or	they	don’t	allow	adequate	time	for	brainstorming,	the	development	of	a bunch	of	ideas	nobody’s	ever	thought	about	that	would	make	the	project	more interesting,	more	profitable,	or	just	more	fun.	And	finally,	very	few	such meetings	bring	to	bear	sufficient	rigor	in	determining	action	steps	and accountabilities	for	the	various	aspects	of	a	project	plan. 


The	good	news	is,	there	 
is
	a	productive	way	to	think	about	projects, situations,	and	topics	that	creates	maximum	value	with	minimal	expenditure	of time	and	effort.	It	happens	to	be	the	way	we	naturally	plan	when	we	consciously try	to	get	a	project	under	control	or	simply	execute	for	a	desired	outcome.	In	my experience,	when	people	do	more	planning,	informally	and	naturally,	they


relieve	a	great	deal	of	stress	 
and
	obtain	better	results. 


The	Natural	Planning	Model


The	most	experienced	planner	in	the	world	is	your	brain. 


You’re	already	familiar	with	the	most	brilliant	and	creative	planner	in	the	world: your	brain.	You	yourself	are	actually	a	planning	machine.	You’re	planning	when you	get	dressed,	eat	lunch,	go	to	the	store,	or	simply	talk.	Although	the	process may	seem	somewhat	random,	a	quite	complex	series	of	steps	has	to	occur	before your	brain	can	make	anything	happen	physically.	Your	mind	goes	through	five steps	to	accomplish	virtually	any	task:


1		|		
Defining	purpose	and	principles


2		|		
Outcome	visioning


3		|		
Brainstorming


4		|		
Organizing


5		|		
Identifying	next	actions


A	Simple	Example:	Planning	Dinner	Out


The	last	time	you	went	out	to	dinner,	what	initially	caused	you	to	think	about doing	it?	It	could	have	been	any	number	of	things—the	desire	to	satisfy	hunger, socialize	with	friends,	celebrate	a	special	occasion,	sign	a	business	deal,	or develop	a	romance.	As	soon	as	any	of	these	turned	into	a	real	inclination	that you	wanted	to	move	on,	you	started	planning.	Your	intention	was	your	
purpose
, and	it	automatically	triggered	your	internal	planning	process.	Your	
principles
 created	the	boundaries	of	your	plan.	You	probably	didn’t	consciously	think about	your	principles	regarding	going	out	to	dinner,	but	you	thought	within them:	standards	of	food	and	service,	affordability,	convenience,	and	comfort	all may	have	played	a	part.	In	any	case,	your	purpose	and	principles	were	the defining	impetus	and	boundaries	of	your	planning. 


Once	you	decided	to	fulfill	your	purpose,	what	were	your	first	substantive


thoughts?	Probably	not	“Point	II.A.3.b.	in	plan.”	Your	first	ideas	were	more likely	things	like	“Italian	food	at	Giovanni’s,”	or	“Sitting	at	a	sidewalk	table	at the	Bistro	Café.”	You	probably	also	imagined	some	positive	picture	of	what	you might	experience	or	how	the	evening	would	turn	out—maybe	the	people involved,	the	atmosphere,	and/or	the	outcome.	That	was	your	
outcome
 
visioning
.	Whereas	your	purpose	was	the	 
why	
 of	your	going	out	to	dinner,	your vision	was	an	image	of	the	 
what
—of	the	physical	world’s	looking,	sounding,	and feeling	the	ways	that	best	fulfilled	your	purpose. 


Once	you’d	identified	with	your	vision,	what	did	your	mind	naturally	begin doing?	What	did	it	start	to	think	about?	“What	time	should	we	go?”	“Is	it	open tonight?”	“Will	it	be	crowded?”	“What’s	the	weather	like?”	“Should	we	change clothes?”	“Is	there	gas	in	the	car?”	“How	hungry	are	we?”	That	was 
brainstorming
.	Those	questions	were	part	of	the	naturally	creative	process	that happens	once	you	commit	to	some	outcome	that	hasn’t	happened	yet.	Your	brain noticed	a	gap	between	what	you	were	looking	toward	and	where	you	actually were	at	the	time,	and	it	began	to	resolve	that	cognitive	dissonance	by	trying	to fill	in	the	blanks.	This	is	the	beginning	of	the	 
how
	phase	of	natural	planning.	But it	did	the	thinking	in	a	somewhat	random	and	ad	hoc	fashion.	Lots	of	different aspects	of	going	to	dinner	just	occurred	to	you.	You	almost	certainly	didn’t	need to	actually	write	all	of	them	down	on	a	piece	of	paper,	but	you	did	a	version	of that	process	in	your	mind. 
*


The	key	to	intelligent	thought	is	more	intelligent	thinking. 


Once	you	had	generated	a	sufficient	number	of	ideas	and	details,	you couldn’t	help	but	start	to	
organize
	them.	You	may	have	thought	or	said,	“First we	need	to	find	out	if	the	restaurant	is	open,”	or	“Let’s	call	the	Andersons	and see	if	they’d	like	to	go	out	with	us.”	Once	you’ve	generated	various	thoughts relevant	to	the	outcome,	your	mind	will	automatically	begin	to	sort	them	by components	(subprojects),	priorities,	and/or	sequences	of	events.  
Components
 would	be:	“We	need	to	handle	logistics,	people,	and	location.”  
Priorities
	would be:	“It’s	critical	to	find	out	if	the	client	really	would	like	to	go	to	dinner.” 


 
Sequences	
 would	be:	“First	we	need	to	check	whether	the	restaurant	is	open, then	call	the	Andersons,	then	get	dressed.”	This	is	the	section	of	natural	planning that	incorporates	 
challenge
,  
comparisons
,	and	 
evaluation
,	by	its	very	nature.	One thing	is	better,	bigger,	or	ahead	of	something	else. 


Finally	(assuming	that	you’re	really	committed	to	the	project—in	this	case, going	out	to	dinner),	you	focus	on	the	
next	action
	that	you	need	to	take	to	make the	first	component	actually	happen.	“Call	Café	Rouge	to	see	if	it’s	open,	and make	the	reservation.” 


These	five	phases	of	project	planning	occur	naturally	for	everything	you accomplish	during	the	day.	It’s	how	you	create	things—dinner,	a	relaxing evening,	a	new	product,	or	a	new	company.	You	have	an	urge	to	make something	happen;	you	image	the	outcome;	you	generate	ideas	that	might	be relevant;	you	sort	those	into	a	structure;	and	you	define	a	physical	activity	that would	begin	to	make	it	a	reality.	And	you	do	all	of	that	naturally,	without	giving it	much	thought. 


Natural	Planning	Is	Not	Necessarily	Normal


But	is	the	process	described	in	the	previous	section	the	way	your	committee	is planning	the	retreat?	Is	it	how	your	IT	team	is	approaching	the	new	system installation?	Is	it	how	you’re	organizing	the	wedding	or	thinking	through	the potential	merger? 


Have	you	envisioned	wild	success	about	anything	lately? 


Have	you	clarified	the	primary	purpose	of	the	project	and	communicated	it	to everyone	who	ought	to	know	it?	And	have	you	agreed	on	the	standards	and behaviors	you’ll	need	to	adhere	to	in	order	to	make	it	successful? 


Have	you	envisioned	success	and	considered	all	the	innovative	things	that might	result	if	you	achieved	it? 


Have	you	gotten	all	possible	ideas	out	on	the	table—everything	you	need	to take	into	consideration	that	might	affect	the	outcome? 


Have	you	identified	the	mission-critical	components,	key	milestones,	and deliverables? 


Have	you	defined	all	the	aspects	of	the	project	that	could	be	moved	on	right now,	what	the	next	action	is	for	each	part,	and	who’s	responsible	for	what? 


If	you’re	like	most	people	I	interact	with	in	a	coaching	or	consulting capacity,	the	collective	answer	to	these	questions	is,	probably	not.	There	are likely	to	be	at	least	some	components	of	the	natural	planning	model	that	you


haven’t	implemented. 


In	some	of	my	seminars	I	get	participants	to	actually	plan	a	current	strategic project	that	uses	this	model.	In	only	a	few	minutes	they	walk	themselves	through all	five	phases,	and	usually	end	up	being	amazed	at	how	much	progress	they’ve made	compared	with	what	they	have	tried	to	do	in	the	past.	One	gentleman	came up	afterward	and	told	me,	“I	don’t	know	whether	I	should	thank	you	or	be	angry. 


I	just	finished	a	business	plan	I’ve	been	telling	myself	would	take	months,	and now	I	have	no	excuses	for	not	doing	it!” 


You	can	try	it	for	yourself	right	now,	if	you	like.	Choose	one	project	that	is new	or	stuck	or	that	could	simply	use	some	improvement.	Think	of	your purpose.	Think	of	what	a	successful	outcome	would	look	like:	where	would	you be	physically,	financially,	in	terms	of	reputation,	or	whatever?	Brainstorm potential	steps.	Organize	your	ideas.	Decide	on	the	next	actions.	Are	you	any clearer	about	where	you	want	to	go	and	how	to	get	there? 


The	Unnatural	Planning	Model


To	emphasize	the	importance	of	utilizing	the	natural	planning	model	for	the more	complex	things	we’re	involved	with,	let’s	contrast	it	with	the	more


“normal”	model	used	in	most	environments—what	I	call	unnatural	planning. 


When	the	“Good”	Idea	Is	a	Bad	Idea


Have	you	ever	heard	a	well-intentioned	manager	or	project	head	start	a	meeting with	the	question,	“OK,	so	who’s	got	a	good	idea	about	this?” 


If	you’re	waiting	to	have	a	good	idea	before	you	have	any	ideas,	you	won’t	have	many. 


What’s	the	assumption	here?	Before	any	evaluation	of	what’s	a	good	idea can	be	trusted,	the	purpose	must	be	clear,	the	vision	must	be	well	defined,	and	all the	relevant	data	must	have	been	collected	(brainstormed)	and	analyzed (organized).	“What’s	a	good	idea?”	is	a	good	question,	but	only	when	you’re about	80	percent	of	the	way	through	your	thinking!  
Starting
	there	would


probably	blow	anyone’s	creative	mental	fuses. 


Trying	to	approach	any	situation	from	a	perspective	that	is	not	the	natural way	your	mind	operates	will	be	difficult.	People	do	it	all	the	time,	but	it	almost always	engenders	a	lack	of	clarity	and	increased	stress.	In	interactions	with others,	it	opens	the	door	for	egos,	politics,	and	hidden	agendas	to	take	over	the discussion	(generally	speaking,	the	most	verbally	aggressive	will	run	the	show). 


And	if	it’s	just	you,	attempting	to	come	up	with	a	good	idea	before	defining	your purpose,	creating	a	vision,	and	collecting	lots	of	initial	bad	ideas	is	likely	to	give you	a	case	of	creative	constipation. 


The	Reactive	Planning	Model


 
When	you	find	yourself	in	a	hole,	stop	digging. 


 
—Will	Rogers


The	unnatural	model	is	what	most	people	still	consciously	think	of	as


“planning,”	and	because	it’s	so	often	artificial	and	irrelevant	to	real	work,	people just	don’t	plan.	At	least	not	on	the	front	end:	they	resist	planning	meetings, presentations,	and	strategic	operations	until	the	last	minute. 


But	what	happens	if	you	don’t	plan	ahead	of	time?	In	many	cases,	crisis! 


(“Didn’t	you	get	the	tickets?”	“I	thought	you	were	going	to	do	that!”)	Then, when	the	urgency	of	the	last	minute	is	upon	you,	the	reactive	planning	model ensues. 


What’s	the	first	level	of	focus	when	the	stuff	hits	the	fan? 
Action! 
	Work harder!	Overtime!	More	people!	Get	busier!	And	a	lot	of	stressed-out	people	are thrown	at	the	situation. 


Then,	when	having	a	lot	of	busy	people	banging	into	each	other	doesn’t resolve	the	situation,	someone	gets	more	sophisticated	and	says,	“We	need	to	get 
organized
!”	(Catching	on	now?)	Then	people	draw	boxes	around	the	problem and	label	them.	Or	 
redraw
	the	boxes	and	 
relabel
	them. 


 
Don’t	just	do	something.	Stand	there. 


 
—Rochelle	Myer


At	some	point	they	realize	that	just	redrawing	boxes	isn’t	really	doing	much to	solve	the	problem.	Now	someone	(much	more	sophisticated)	suggests	that more	creativity	is	needed.	“Let’s	
brainstorm
!”	With	everyone	in	the	room,	the boss	asks,	“So,	who’s	got	a	 
good
	idea	here?” 


When	not	much	happens,	the	boss	may	surmise	that	his	staff	has	used	up most	of	its	internal	creativity.	Time	to	hire	a	consultant!	Of	course,	if	the consultant	is	worth	his	salt,	at	some	point	he	is	probably	going	to	ask	the	big question:	“So,	what	are	you	really	trying	to	 
do
	here,	anyway?”	(
vision
, 
purpose
). 


Natural	Planning	Techniques:	The	Five	Phases


It	goes	without	saying,	but	still	must	be	said	again:	thinking	in	more	effective ways	about	projects	and	situations	can	make	things	happen	sooner,	better,	and more	successfully.	So	if	our	minds	plan	naturally	anyway,	what	can	we	learn from	that?	How	can	we	use	that	model	to	facilitate	getting	more	and	better results	in	our	thinking? 


Let’s	examine	each	of	the	five	phases	of	natural	planning	and	see	how	we can	leverage	these	contexts. 


Purpose


It	never	hurts	to	ask	the	 
why
	question.	Almost	anything	you’re	currently	doing can	be	enhanced	and	even	galvanized	by	more	scrutiny	at	this	top	level	of	focus. 


Why	are	you	going	to	your	next	meeting?	What’s	the	purpose	of	your	task?	Why are	you	having	friends	over	for	dinner?	Why	are	you	hiring	a	marketing	director instead	of	an	agency?	Why	are	you	putting	up	with	the	situation	in	your	service organization?	Why	do	you	have	a	budget?	Ad	infinitum. 


 
Fanaticism	consists	of	redoubling	your	efforts	when	you	have	forgotten	your	aim. 


 
—George	Santayana


I	admit	it:	this	is	nothing	but	advanced	common	sense.	To	know	and	to	be


clear	about	the	purpose	of	any	activity	are	prime	directives	for	appropriate	focus, creative	development,	and	cooperation.	But	it’s	common	sense	that’s	not commonly	practiced,	simply	because	it’s	so	easy	for	us	to	create	things,	get caught	up	in	the	form	of	what	we’ve	created,	and	let	our	connection	with	our	real and	primary	intentions	slip. 


I	know,	based	upon	thousands	of	hours	spent	in	many	offices	with	many sophisticated	people,	that	the	 
why
	question	cannot	be	ignored.	When	people complain	to	me	about	having	too	many	meetings,	I	have	to	ask,	“What	is	the purpose	of	the	meetings?”	When	they	ask,	“Who	should	I	invite	to	the	planning session?”	I	have	to	ask,	“What’s	the	purpose	of	the	planning	session?”	When	the dilemma	is	whether	to	stay	connected	with	work	and	e-mail	on	a	vacation	or	not, I	have	to	ask,	“What’s	the	primary	purpose	of	the	vacation?”	Until	we	have	the answer	to	my	questions,	there’s	no	possible	way	to	come	up	with	an	appropriate response	to	theirs. 


The	Value	of	Thinking	About	Why


Here	are	just	some	of	the	benefits	of	asking	why:


It	defines	success. 


It	creates	decision-making	criteria. 


It	aligns	resources. 


It	motivates. 


It	clarifies	focus. 


It	expands	options. 


People	love	to	win.	If	you’re	not	totally	clear	about	the	purpose	of	what	you’re	doing,	you have	no	game	to	win. 


Let’s	take	a	closer	look	at	each	of	these	in	turn. 


 
It	Defines	Success	
 People	are	starved	for	“wins”	these	days.	We	love	to	play games,	and	we	like	to	win,	or	at	least	be	in	a	position	where	we	could	win.	And if	you’re	not	totally	clear	about	the	purpose	of	what	you’re	doing,	you	have	no chance	of	winning.	Purpose	defines	success.	It’s	the	primal	reference	point	for any	investment	of	time	and	energy,	from	deciding	to	run	for	elective	office	to


designing	a	form. 


Ultimately	you	can’t	feel	good	about	a	staff	meeting	unless	you	know	what the	purpose	of	the	meeting	was.	And	if	you	want	to	sleep	well,	you’d	better	have a	good	answer	when	your	board	asks	why	you	fired	your	head	of	marketing	or hired	that	hotshot	MBA	as	your	new	finance	director.	You	won’t	really	know whether	or	not	your	business	plan	is	any	good	until	you	hold	it	up	against	the success	criterion	that	you	define	by	answering	the	question,	“Why	do	we	need	a business	plan?” 


 
It	Creates	Decision-Making	Criteria	
 How	do	you	decide	whether	to	spend	the money	for	a	five-color	brochure	or	just	go	with	a	two-color?	How	do	you	know whether	it’s	worth	hiring	a	major	Web	design	firm	to	handle	your	new	Web	site? 


How	do	you	know	if	you	should	send	your	daughter	to	private	school? 


Often	the	only	way	to	make	a	hard	decision	is	to	come	back	to	the	purpose	of	what	you’re	doing. 


It	all	comes	down	to	purpose.	Given	what	you’re	trying	to	accomplish,	are these	investments	required?	There’s	no	way	to	know	until	the	purpose	is	defined. 


 
It	Aligns	Resources	
 How	should	we	spend	our	staffing	allocation	in	the	corporate budget?	How	do	we	best	use	the	cash	flow	right	now	to	maximize	our	viability as	a	retailer	over	the	next	year?	Should	we	spend	more	money	on	the	luncheon or	on	the	speakers	for	the	monthly	association	meeting? 


In	each	case,	the	answer	depends	on	what	we’re	really	trying	to	accomplish


—the	 
why
. 


If	you’re	not	sure	why	you’re	doing	something,	you	can	never	do	enough	of	it. 


 
It	Motivates	
 Let’s	face	it:	if	there’s	no	good	reason	to	be	doing	something,	it’s not	worth	doing.	I’m	often	stunned	by	how	many	people	have	forgotten	why they’re	doing	what	they’re	doing—and	by	how	quickly	a	simple	question	like, 


“Why	are	you	doing	that?”	can	get	them	back	on	track. 


 
It	Clarifies	Focus	
 When	you	land	on	the	real	purpose	for	anything	you’re	doing, 


it	makes	things	clearer.	Just	taking	two	minutes	and	writing	out	your	primary reason	for	doing	something	invariably	creates	an	increased	sharpness	of	vision, much	like	bringing	a	telescope	into	focus.	Frequently,	projects	and	situations that	have	begun	to	feel	scattered	and	blurred	grow	clearer	when	someone	brings it	back	home	by	asking,	“What	are	we	really	trying	to	accomplish	here?” 


 
It	Expands	Options	
 Paradoxically,	even	as	purpose	brings	things	into	pinpoint focus,	it	opens	up	creative	thinking	about	wider	possibilities.	When	you	really know	the	underlying	 
why
—for	the	conference,	for	the	staff	party,	for	your vacation,	for	the	elimination	of	the	management	position,	or	for	the	merger—it expands	your	thinking	about	how	to	make	the	desired	result	happen.	When people	write	out	their	purpose	for	a	project	in	my	seminars,	they	often	claim	it’s like	a	fresh	breeze	blowing	through	their	mind,	clarifying	their	vision	of	what they’re	doing. 


Is	your	purpose	clear	and	specific	enough?	If	you’re	truly	experiencing	the benefits	of	a	purpose	focus—motivation,	clarity,	decision-making	criteria, alignment,	and	creativity—then	your	purpose	probably	 
is
	specific	enough.	But many	purpose	statements	are	too	vague	to	produce	such	results.	“To	have	a	good team,”	for	example,	might	be	too	broad	or	vague	a	goal.	After	all,	what constitutes	a	“good	team”?	Is	it	a	group	of	people	who	are	highly	motivated, collaborating	in	healthy	ways,	and	taking	initiative?	Or	is	it	a	team	that	comes	in under	budget?	In	other	words,	if	you	don’t	really	know	when	you’ve	met	your purpose	or	when	you’re	off	track,	you	don’t	have	a	viable	directive.	The question,	“How	will	I	know	when	this	is	off	purpose?”	must	have	a	clear	answer. 


Principles


 
Simple,	clear	purpose	and	principles	give	rise	to	complex	and	intelligent	behavior.	Complex
 
rules	and	regulations	give	rise	to	simple	and	stupid	behavior. 


 
—Dee	Hock


Of	equal	value	as	prime	criteria	for	driving	and	directing	a	project	are	the standards	and	values	you	hold.	Although	people	seldom	think	about	these consciously,	they	are	always	there.	And	if	they	are	violated,	the	result	will


inevitably	be	unproductive	distraction	and	stress. 


A	great	way	to	think	about	what	your	principles	are	is	to	complete	this sentence:	“I	would	give	others	totally	free	rein	to	do	this	as	long	as	they	.	.	.”	As long	as	they	what?	What	policies,	stated	or	unstated,	will	apply	to	your	group’s activities?	“As	long	as	they	stayed	within	budget”?	“satisfied	the	client”? 


“ensured	a	healthy	team”?	“promoted	a	positive	image”? 


It	can	be	a	major	source	of	stress	when	others	engage	in	or	allow	behavior that’s	outside	your	standards.	If	you	never	have	to	deal	with	this	issue,	you’re truly	graced.	If	you	do,	some	constructive	conversation	about,	and	clarification of,	principles	could	align	the	energy	and	prevent	unnecessary	conflict.	You	may want	to	begin	by	asking	yourself,	“What	behavior	might	undermine	what	I’m doing,	and	how	can	I	prevent	it?”	That	will	give	you	a	good	starting	point	for defining	your	standards. 


Another	great	reason	for	focusing	on	principles	is	the	clarity	and	reference point	they	provide	for	positive	conduct.	How	do	you	want	or	need	to	work	with others	on	this	project	to	ensure	its	success?	What	behaviors	are	in-	and	out-of-bounds	for	your	kids	on	the	family	vacation?	You	and	others	are	at	your	best when	you’re	acting	how? 


Whereas	purpose	provides	the	juice	and	the	direction,	principles	define	the parameters	of	action	and	the	criteria	for	excellence	of	conduct. 


Vision/Outcome


In	order	to	most	productively	access	the	conscious	and	unconscious	resources available	to	you,	you	must	have	a	clear	picture	in	your	mind	of	what	success would	look,	sound,	and	feel	like.	Purpose	and	principles	furnish	the	impetus	and the	monitoring,	but	vision	provides	the	actual	blueprint	of	the	final	result.	This	is the	 
what
	instead	of	the	 
why
.	What	will	this	project	or	situation	really	be	like when	it	successfully	appears	in	the	world? 


For	example,	graduates	of	your	seminar	are	demonstrating	consistently applied	knowledge	of	the	subject	matter.	Market	share	has	increased	2	percent within	the	northeastern	region	over	the	last	fiscal	year.	Your	daughter	is	clear about	your	guidelines	and	support	for	her	first	semester	in	college. 


The	Power	of	Focus


 
Imagination	is	more	important	than	knowledge. 


 
—Albert	Einstein


Since	the	1960s	thousands	of	books	have	expounded	on	the	value	of	appropriate positive	imagery	and	focus.	Forward-looking	focus	has	even	been	a	key	element in	Olympic-level	sports	training,	with	athletes	imagining	the	physical	effort,	the positive	energy,	and	the	successful	result	to	ensure	the	highest	level	of unconscious	support	for	their	performance. 


We	know	that	the	focus	we	hold	in	our	minds	affects	what	we	perceive	and how	we	perform.	This	is	as	true	on	the	golf	course	as	it	is	in	a	staff	meeting	or during	a	serious	conversation	with	a	life	partner.	My	interest	here	lies	in providing	a	model	for	focus	that	is	dynamic	in	a	practical	way,	especially	in project	thinking. 


When	you	focus	on	something—the	vacation	you’re	going	to	take,	the meeting	you’re	about	to	go	into,	the	project	you	want	to	launch—that	focus instantly	creates	ideas	and	thought	patterns	you	wouldn’t	have	had	otherwise. 


Even	your	physiology	will	respond	to	an	image	in	your	head	as	if	it	were	reality. 


 
The	Reticular	Activating	System	
 The	May	1957	issue	of	 
Scientific	American
 magazine	contains	an	article	describing	the	discovery	of	the	reticular	formation at	the	base	of	the	brain.	The	reticular	formation	is	basically	the	gateway	to	your conscious	awareness;	it’s	the	switch	that	turns	on	your	perception	of	ideas	and data,	the	thing	that	keeps	you	asleep	even	when	music’s	playing	but	wakes	you if	a	special	little	baby	cries	in	another	room. 


 
Your	automatic	creative	mechanism	is	teleological.	That	is,	it	operates	in	terms	of	goals	and	end
 
results.	Once	you	give	it	a	definite	goal	to	achieve,	you	can	depend	upon	its	automatic	guidance
 
system	to	take	you	to	that	goal	much	better	than	“you”	ever	could	by	conscious	thought.	“You” 


 
supply	the	goal	by	thinking	in	terms	of	end	results.	Your	automatic	mechanism	then	supplies	the
 
means	whereby. 


 
—Maxwell	Maltz


Just	like	a	computer,	your	brain	has	a	search	function—but	it’s	even	more phenomenal	than	a	computer’s.	It	seems	to	be	programmed	by	what	we	focus	on and,	more	primarily,	what	we	identify	with.	It’s	the	seat	of	what	many	people


have	referred	to	as	the	paradigms	we	maintain.	We	notice	only	what	matches	our internal	belief	systems	and	identified	contexts.	If	you’re	an	optometrist,	for example,	you’ll	tend	to	notice	people	wearing	eyeglasses	across	a	crowded room;	if	you’re	a	building	contractor,	you	may	notice	the	room’s	physical details.	If	you	focus	on	the	color	red	right	now	and	then	just	glance	around	your environment,	if	there	is	any	red	at	all,	you’ll	see	even	the	tiniest	bits	of	it. 


The	implications	of	how	this	filtering	works—how	we	are	unconsciously made	conscious	of	information—could	fill	a	weeklong	seminar,	if	not	the	rest	of your	life!	Suffice	it	to	say	that	something	automatic	and	extraordinary	happens in	your	mind	when	you	create	and	focus	on	a	clear	picture	of	what	you	want. 


Clarifying	Outcomes


There	is	a	simple	but	profound	principle	that	emerges	from	understanding	the way	your	perceptive	filters	work:	you	won’t	see	how	to	do	it	until	you	see yourself	doing	it. 


You	often	need	to	make	it	up	in	your	mind	before	you	can	make	it	happen	in	your	life. 


It’s	easy	to	envision	something	happening	if	it	has	happened	before	or	you have	had	experience	with	similar	successes.	It	can	be	quite	a	challenge,	however, to	identify	with	images	of	success	if	they	represent	new	and	foreign	territory—


that	is,	if	you	have	few	reference	points	about	what	an	event	might	actually	look like	and	little	experience	of	your	own	ability	to	make	it	happen. 


Many	of	us	hold	ourselves	back	from	imagining	a	desired	outcome	unless someone	can	show	us	 
how	to	get	there
.	Unfortunately,	that’s	backward	in	terms of	how	our	minds	work	to	generate	and	recognize	solutions	and	methods. 


 
I	always	wanted	to	be	somebody.	I	should	have	been	more	specific. 


 
—Lily	Tomlin


One	of	the	most	powerful	life	skills,	and	one	of	the	most	important	to	hone and	develop	for	both	professional	and	personal	success,	is	creating	clear outcomes.	This	is	not	as	self-evident	as	it	may	sound.	We	need	to	constantly


define	(and	redefine)	what	we’re	trying	to	accomplish	on	many	different	levels, and	consistently	reallocate	resources	toward	getting	these	tasks	complete	as effectively	and	efficiently	as	possible. 


What	will	this	project	look	like	when	it’s	done?	How	do	you	want	the	client to	feel,	and	what	do	you	want	him	to	know	and	do	after	the	presentation?	Where will	you	be	in	your	career	three	years	from	now?	How	would	the	ideal	head	of finance	do	his	job?	What	would	your	Web	site	really	look	like	and	have	as capabilities	if	it	could	be	the	way	you	wanted	it?	What	would	your	relationship with	your	son	feel	like	if	this	conversation	you	need	to	have	with	him	were successful? 


Outcome/vision	can	range	from	a	simple	statement	of	the	project,	such	as


“Finalize	computer-system	implementation,”	to	a	completely	scripted	movie depicting	the	future	scene	in	all	its	glorious	detail. 


When	I	am	able	to	get	people	to	focus	on	a	successful	scenario	of	their project,	they	usually	experience	heightened	enthusiasm	and	think	of	something unique	and	positive	about	it	that	didn’t	occur	to	them	before.	“Wouldn’t	it	be great	if	.	.	.”	is	not	a	bad	way	to	start	thinking	about	a	situation,	at	least	for	long enough	to	have	the	option	of	getting	an	answer. 


Brainstorming


 
The	best	way	to	get	a	good	idea	is	to	get	lots	of	ideas. 


 
—Linus	Pauling


Once	you	know	what	you	want	to	happen	and	why,	the	 
how
	mechanism	is brought	into	play.	When	you	identify	with	some	picture	in	your	mind	that	is different	from	your	current	reality,	you	automatically	start	filling	in	the	gaps,	or brainstorming.	Ideas	begin	to	pop	into	your	head	in	somewhat	random	order—


little	ones,	big	ones,	not-so-good	ones,	good	ones.	This	process	usually	goes	on internally	for	most	people	about	most	things,	and	that’s	often	sufficient.	For example,	you	think	about	what	you	want	to	say	to	your	boss	as	you’re	walking down	the	hall	to	speak	to	her.	But	there	are	many	other	instances	when	writing things	down,	or	capturing	them	in	some	external	way,	can	give	a	tremendous boost	to	productive	output	and	thinking. 


Your	mind	wants	to	figure	out	how	to	get	from	here	to	there,	but	initially	in	somewhat	random order. 


Capturing	Your	Ideas


Over	the	past	several	decades,	a	number	of	graphics-oriented	brainstorming techniques	have	been	introduced	to	help	develop	creative	thinking	about	projects and	topics.	They’ve	been	given	names	such	as	mind	mapping,	clustering, patterning,	webbing,	and	fish	boning.	Although	the	authors	of	these	various processes	may	portray	them	as	being	different	from	one	another,	for	most	of	us end	users	the	basic	premise	remains	the	same:	give	yourself	permission	to capture	and	express	any	idea,	and	then	later	on	figure	out	how	it	fits	in	and	what to	do	with	it.	If	nothing	else	(and	there	is	plenty	of	“else”),	this	practice	adds	to your	efficiency—when	you	have	the	idea,	you	grab	it,	which	means	you	won’t have	to	have	the	idea	again. 


The	most	popular	of	these	concepts	and	techniques	is	called	mind	mapping,	a name	coined	by	Tony	Buzan,	a	British	researcher	in	brain	functioning,	to	label this	process	of	brainstorming	ideas	into	a	graphic	format.	In	mind	mapping,	the core	idea	is	presented	in	the	center,	with	associated	ideas	growing	out	in	a somewhat	free-form	fashion	around	it.	For	instance,	if	I	found	out	that	I	had	to move	my	office,	I	might	think	about	computers,	changing	my	business	cards,	all the	connections	I’d	have	to	change,	new	furniture,	moving	the	phones,	purging and	packing,	and	so	on.	If	I	capture	these	thoughts	graphically	it	might	start	to look	something	like	this:




You	could	do	this	kind	of	mind	mapping	on	Post-its	that	could	be	stuck	on	a whiteboard,	or	you	could	input	ideas	into	a	word	processing	program,	outlining program,	or	one	of	the	many	mind-mapping	software	applications	on	the	market. 


Distributed	Cognition


The	great	thing	about	external	brainstorming	is	that	in	addition	to	capturing	your original	ideas,	it	can	help	generate	many	new	ones	that	might	not	have	occurred to	you	if	you	didn’t	have	a	mechanism	to	hold	your	thoughts	and	continually reflect	them	back	to	you.	It’s	as	if	your	mind	were	to	say,	“Look,	I’m	only	going to	give	you	as	many	ideas	as	you	feel	you	can	effectively	use.	If	you’re	not collecting	them	in	some	trusted	way,	I	won’t	give	you	that	many.	But	if	you’re actually	doing	something	with	the	ideas—even	if	it’s	just	recording	them	for later	evaluation—then	here,	have	a	bunch!	And,	oh	wow!	That	reminds	me	of another	one,	and	another,”	etc. 


 
Nothing	is	more	dangerous	than	an	idea	when	it	is	the	only	one	you	have. 


 
—Emile	Chartier


Psychologists	have	now	labeled	this	and	similar	processes	“distributed cognition.”	It’s	getting	things	out	of	your	head	and	into	objective,	reviewable formats—building	an	“extended	mind.”	But	my	English	teacher	in	high	school didn’t	have	to	know	about	the	theory	to	give	me	the	key:	“David,”	he	said, 


“you’re	going	to	college,	and	you’re	going	to	be	writing	papers.	Write	all	your notes	and	quotes	on	separate	three-by-five-inch	cards.	Then,	when	you	get	ready to	organize	your	thinking,	just	spread	them	all	out	on	the	floor,	see	the	natural structure	that	emerges,	and	figure	out	what’s	missing.	Mr.	Edmundson	was teaching	me	a	major	piece	of	the	natural	planning	model! 


 
Only	he	who	handles	his	ideas	lightly	is	master	of	his	ideas,	and	only	he	who	is	master	of	his
 
ideas	is	not	enslaved	by	them. 


 
—Lin	Yutang


Few	people	can	hold	their	focus	on	a	topic	for	more	than	a	couple	of	minutes without	some	objective	structure	and	tool	or	trigger	to	help	them.	Pick	a	big project	you	have	going	right	now	and	just	try	to	think	of	nothing	else	for	more than	thirty	seconds.	This	is	pretty	hard	to	do	unless	you	have	a	pen	and	paper	in hand	and	use	one	of	those	“cognitive	artifacts”	as	the	anchor	for	your	ideas. 


Then	you	can	stay	with	it	for	hours.	That’s	why	good	thinking	can	happen	while you’re	working	on	a	computer	document	about	a	project,	mind	mapping	it	on	a notepad,	doodling	about	it	on	a	paper	tablecloth,	or	just	having	a	meeting	about it	with	other	people	in	a	room	that	allows	you	to	hold	the	context	(a	whiteboard with	nice	wet	markers	really	helps	there,	too). 


Brainstorming	Keys


Many	techniques	can	be	used	to	facilitate	brainstorming	and	out-of-the-box thinking.	The	basic	principles,	however,	can	be	summed	up	as	follows: Don’t	judge,	challenge,	evaluate,	or	criticize. 


Go	for	quantity,	not	quality. 


Put	analysis	and	organization	in	the	background. 


Determining	what	might	go	most	wrong	in	a	situation	is	at	times	the	best	way	to	generate	the best	ideas	about	how	to	make	it	successful. 


 
Don’t	Judge,	Challenge,	Evaluate,	or	Criticize	
 It’s	easy	for	the	unnatural planning	model	to	rear	its	ugly	head	in	brainstorming,	making	people	jump	to premature	evaluations	and	critiques	of	ideas.	If	you	care	even	slightly	about what	a	critic	thinks,	you’ll	censor	your	expressive	process	as	you	look	for	the


“right”	thing	to	say.	There’s	a	very	subtle	distinction	between	keeping brainstorming	on	target	with	the	topic	and	stifling	the	creative	process.	It’s	also important	that	brainstorming	be	put	into	the	overall	context	of	the	planning process,	because	if	you	think	you’re	doing	it	just	for	its	own	sake,	it	can	seem trite	and	inappropriately	off	course.	If	you	can	understand	it	instead	as something	you’re	doing	right	now,	for	a	certain	period,	before	you	move	toward a	resolution	at	the	end,	you’ll	feel	more	comfortable	giving	this	part	of	the process	its	due. 


This	is	not	to	suggest	that	you	should	shut	off	critical	thinking,	though—


everything	ought	to	be	fair	game	at	this	stage.	“Here’s	what	might	be	wrong	with that	approach”	needs	to	be	on	the	table,	if	it’s	present.	Often	it’s	the	most challenging	and	critical	ideas	that	have	the	germ	of	the	best	ones.	It’s	just	wise	to understand	what	kinds	of	thoughts	you’re	having	and	to	park	them	for	use	in	the most	appropriate	way.	The	primary	criteria	must	be	inclusion	and	expansion,	not constriction	and	contraction. 


 
Go	for	Quantity,	Not	Quality	
 Going	for	quantity	keeps	your	thinking	expansive. 


Often	you	won’t	know	what’s	a	good	idea	until	you	have	it.	And	sometimes you’ll	realize	it’s	a	good	idea,	or	the	germ	of	one,	only	later	on.	You	know	how shopping	at	a	big	store	with	lots	of	options	lets	you	feel	comfortable	about	your choice?	The	same	holds	true	for	project	thinking.	The	greater	the	volume	of thoughts	you	have	to	work	with,	the	better	the	context	you	can	create	for developing	options	and	trusting	your	choices. 


 
Put	Analysis	and	Organization	in	the	Background	
 Analysis	and	evaluation	and organization	of	your	thoughts	should	be	given	as	free	a	rein	as	creative,	out-of-


the-box	thinking.	But	in	the	brainstorming	phase,	this	critical	activity	should	not be	the	driver. 


Making	a	list	can	be	a	creative	thing	to	do;	it’s	a	way	to	consider	the	people who	should	be	on	your	team,	the	customer	requirements	for	the	software,	or	the components	of	the	business	plan.	Just	make	sure	to	grab	all	that	and	keep	going until	you	get	into	the	weeding	and	organizing	of	focus	that	make	up	the	next stage. 


Organizing


A	project	plan	identifies	the	smaller	outcomes,	which	can	then	be	naturally	planned. 


If	you’ve	done	a	thorough	job	of	emptying	your	head	of	all	the	things	that	came up	in	the	brainstorming	phase,	you’ll	notice	that	a	natural	organization	is emerging.	As	my	high	school	English	teacher	suggested,	once	you	get	all	the ideas	out	of	your	head	and	in	front	of	your	eyes,	you’ll	automatically	notice natural	relationships	and	structure.	This	is	what	most	people	are	referring	to when	they	talk	about	organizing	a	project. 


Organizing	usually	happens	when	you	identify	components	and


subcomponents,	sequences	of	events,	and/or	priorities.	What	are	the	things	that must	occur	to	create	the	final	result?	In	what	order	must	they	occur?	What	is	the most	important	element	to	ensure	the	success	of	the	project? 


This	is	the	stage	in	which	you	can	make	good	use	of	structuring	tools	ranging from	informal	bullet	points	scribbled	on	the	back	of	an	envelope	to	heavy-horsepower	project-planning	software.	When	a	project	calls	for	substantial objective	control,	you’ll	need	some	type	of	hierarchical	outline	with	components and	subcomponents,	and/or	a	Gantt-type	chart	showing	stages	of	the	project	laid out	over	time,	with	independent	and	dependent	parts	and	milestones	identified	in relationship	to	the	whole. 


Creative	thinking	doesn’t	stop	here;	it	just	takes	another	form.	Once	you perceive	a	basic	structure,	your	mind	will	start	trying	to	fill	in	the	blanks. 


Identifying	the	three	key	things	that	you	need	to	handle	on	the	project,	for example,	may	cause	you	to	think	of	a	fourth	and	a	fifth	when	you	see	them	all lined	up. 


The	Basics	of	Organizing


The	key	steps	here	are:


Identify	the	significant	pieces


Sort	by	(one	or	more):


components


sequences


priorities


Detail	to	the	required	degree


I	have	never	seen	any	two	projects	that	needed	to	have	exactly	the	same amount	of	structure	and	detail	developed	in	order	to	get	things	off	people’s minds	and	moving	successfully.	But	almost	all	projects	can	use	some	form	of creative	thinking	from	the	sequential	part	of	the	brain,	along	the	lines	of	“What’s the	plan?” 


Next	Actions


The	final	stage	of	planning	comes	down	to	decisions	about	the	allocation	and reallocation	of	physical	resources	to	actually	get	the	project	moving.	The question	to	ask	here	is,	“What’s	the	next	action?” 


As	we	noted	in	the	previous	chapter,	this	kind	of	grounded,	reality-based thinking,	combined	with	clarification	of	the	desired	outcome,	forms	the	critical component	for	defining	and	clarifying	what	our	real	work	is.	In	my	experience, creating	a	list	of	what	your	real	projects	are	and	consistently	managing	your	next action	for	each	one	will	constitute	90	percent	of	what	is	generally	thought	of	as project	planning.	This	ground-floor	approach	will	make	you	honest	about	all kinds	of	things.	Are	you	really	serious	about	doing	this?	Who’s	responsible? 


Have	you	thought	things	through	enough? 


At	some	point,	if	the	project	is	an	actionable	one,	this	next-action-thinking decision	must	be	made. 
*
	Answering	the	question	about	what,	specifically,	you would	do	about	something	physically	if	you	had	nothing	else	to	do	will	test	the maturity	of	your	thinking	about	the	project.	If	you’re	not	yet	ready	to	answer	that question,	you	have	more	to	flesh	out	at	some	prior	level	in	the	natural	planning sequence. 


The	Basics


Decide	on	next	actions	for	each	of	the	current	“moving	parts”	of	the	project. 


Decide	on	the	next	action	in	the	planning	process,	if	necessary. 


 
Activating	the	Moving	Parts	
 A	project	is	sufficiently	planned	for	implementation when	every	next-action	step	has	been	decided	on	every	front	that	can	actually	be moved	on	without	some	other	component’s	having	to	be	completed	first.	If	the project	has	multiple	components,	each	of	them	should	be	assessed	appropriately by	asking,	“Is	there	something	that	anyone	could	be	doing	on	this	right	now?” 


You	could	be	coordinating	speakers	for	the	conference,	for	instance,	at	the	same time	that	you’re	finding	the	appropriate	site. 


In	some	cases	there	will	be	only	one	aspect	that	can	be	activated,	and everything	else	will	depend	on	the	results	of	that.	So	there	may	be	only	one	next action,	which	will	be	the	linchpin	for	all	the	rest. 


 
More	to	Plan? 
 What	if	there’s	still	more	planning	to	be	done	before	you	can	feel comfortable	with	what’s	next?	There’s	still	an	action	step—it	is	just	a	process action.	What’s	the	next	step	in	the	continuation	of	planning?	Drafting	more ideas.	E-mailing	Ana	Maria	and	Sean	to	get	their	input.	Telling	your	assistant	to set	up	a	planning	meeting	with	the	product	team. 


The	habit	of	clarifying	the	next	action	on	projects,	no	matter	what	the situation,	is	fundamental	to	you	staying	in	relaxed	control. 


 
When	the	Next	Action	Is	Someone	Else’s	.	.	. 
 If	the	next	action	is	not	yours,	you must	nevertheless	clarify	whose	it	is	(this	is	a	primary	use	of	the	Waiting	For action	list).	In	a	group-planning	situation,	it	isn’t	necessary	for	everyone	to	know what	the	next	step	is	on	every	part	of	the	project.	Often	all	that’s	required	is	to allocate	responsibility	for	parts	of	the	project	to	the	appropriate	persons	and leave	it	up	to	them	to	identify	next	actions	on	their	particular	pieces. 


This	next-action	conversation	forces	organizational	clarity.	Issues	and	details emerge	that	don’t	show	up	until	someone	holds	everyone’s	feet	to	the	fire	about the	physical-level	reality	of	resource	allocation.	It’s	a	simple	practical	discussion to	foster,	and	one	that	can	significantly	stir	the	pot	and	identify	weak	links. 


How	Much	Planning	Do	You	Really	Need	to	Do? 


How	much	of	this	planning	model	do	you	really	need	to	flesh	out,	and	to	what degree	of	detail?	The	simple	answer	is,	as	much	as	you	need	to	get	the	project off	your	mind. 


In	general,	the	reason	things	are	on	your	mind	is	that	the	outcome	and	action step(s)	have	not	been	appropriately	defined,	and/or	reminders	of	them	have	not been	put	in	places	where	you	can	be	trusted	to	look	for	them	appropriately. 


Additionally,	you	may	not	have	developed	the	details,	perspectives,	and solutions	sufficiently	to	trust	the	efficacy	of	your	blueprint. 


If	the	project	is	still	on	your	mind,	there’s	more	thinking	required. 


Most	projects,	given	my	definition	of	a	project	as	an	outcome	requiring	more than	one	action,	need	no	more	than	a	listing	of	their	outcome	and	next	action	for you	to	get	them	off	your	mind.	You	need	a	new	stockbroker?	You	just	have	to call	a	friend	for	a	recommendation.	You	want	to	set	up	a	new	printer	at	home? 









You	just	need	to	surf	the	Web	to	check	out	different	models	and	prices.	I estimate	that	80	percent	of	projects	are	of	that	nature.	You’ll	still	be	doing	the full	planning	model	on	all	of	them,	but	only	in	your	head,	and	just	enough	to figure	out	next	actions	and	keep	them	going	until	they’re	complete. 


Another	15	percent	or	so	of	projects	might	require	at	least	some	external form	of	brainstorming—maybe	a	mind	map	or	a	few	notes	in	a	word	processing or	presentation	program.	That	might	be	sufficient	for	planning	meeting	agendas, your	vacation,	or	a	speech	to	the	local	chamber	of	commerce. 


A	final	5	percent	of	projects	might	need	the	deliberate	application	of	one	or more	of	the	five	phases	of	the	natural	planning	model.	The	model	provides	a practical	recipe	for	unsticking	things,	resolving	them,	and	moving	them	forward productively.	Are	you	aware	of	a	need	for	greater	clarity,	or	great	action,	on	any of	your	projects?	If	so,	using	the	model	can	often	be	the	key	to	making	effective progress. 


Need	More	Clarity? 


If	greater	clarity	is	what	you	need,	shift	your	thinking	up	the	natural	planning scale.	People	are	often	very	busy	(action)	but	nonetheless	experience	confusion and	a	lack	of	clear	direction.	They	need	to	pull	out	the	plan	or	create	one (organize).	If	there’s	a	lack	of	clarity	at	the	planning	level,	there’s	probably	a


need	for	more	brainstorming	to	generate	a	sufficient	inventory	of	current	ideas and	data	to	create	trust	in	the	plan.	If	the	brainstorming	session	gets	bogged down	with	fuzzy	thinking,	the	focus	should	shift	back	to	the	vision	of	the outcome,	ensuring	that	the	reticular	filter	in	the	brain	will	open	up	to	deliver	the how-to	thinking.	If	the	outcome/vision	is	unclear,	you	must	return	to	a	clean analysis	of	why	you’re	engaged	in	the	situation	in	the	first	place	(purpose). 


Need	More	to	Be	Happening? 


If	more	action	is	what’s	needed,	you	need	to	move	down	the	model.	There	may be	enthusiasm	about	the	purpose	of	a	project	but	at	the	same	time	some resistance	to	actually	fleshing	out	what	fulfilling	it	in	the	real	world	might	look like.	These	days,	the	task	of	improving	quality	of	work	life	may	be	on	the	radar for	a	manager,	but	often	he	won’t	yet	have	defined	a	clear	picture	of	the	desired result.	The	thinking	must	go	to	the	specifics	of	the	vision.	Again,	ask	yourself, 


“What	would	the	outcome	look	like?” 


If	you’ve	formulated	an	answer	to	that	question,	but	things	are	still	stuck,	it’s probably	time	for	you	to	grapple	with	some	of	the	 
how
	issues	and	the	operational details	and	perspectives	(brainstorming).	I	often	have	clients	who	have	inherited a	relatively	clearly	articulated	project,	such	as	“Implement	the	new	performance-review	system,”	but	who	aren’t	moving	forward	because	they	haven’t	yet	taken	a few	minutes	to	dump	some	ideas	out	about	what	that	might	entail. 


If	brainstorming	gets	hung	up	(and	very	often	it	does	for	the	more	“blue	sky” 


types),	rigor	may	be	required	to	do	some	evaluation	of	and	decision	making about	mission-critical	deliverables	that	have	to	be	handled	(organizing).	This	is sometimes	the	case	when	an	informal	back-and-forth	meeting	that	has	generated lots	of	ideas	ends	without	producing	any	decision	about	what	actually	needs	to happen	next	on	the	project. 


And	if	there	 
is
	a	plan,	but	the	rubber	still	isn’t	hitting	the	road	like	it	should, someone	needs	to	assess	each	component	with	the	focus	of	“What’s	the	next action,	and	who’s	got	it?”	One	manager,	who	had	taken	over	responsibility	many months	in	advance	for	organizing	a	major	annual	conference,	asked	me	how	to prevent	the	crisis	all-nighters	her	team	had	experienced	near	the	deadline	of	the previous	year.	When	she	produced	an	outline	of	the	various	pieces	of	the	project she’d	inherited,	I	asked,	“Which	pieces	could	actually	be	moved	on	right	now?” 


After	identifying	half	a	dozen,	we	clarified	the	next	action	on	each	one.	It	was off	and	running,	in	time	to	prevent	a	repeat	of	the	previous	year’s	last-minute


chaos. 


•	•	•	


In	the	prior	two	chapters,	I	covered	the	basic	models	of	how	to	stay	maximally productive	and	in	control,	with	minimal	effort,	at	the	two	most	basic	levels	of our	life	and	work:	the	actions	we	take	and	the	projects	we	enter	into	that generate	many	of	those	actions. 


You	need	no	new	skills	to	increase	your	productivity	and	reduce	your	stress—just	an	enhanced set	of	systematic	behaviors	with	which	to	apply	them. 


The	fundamentals	remain	true—you	must	be	responsible	for	collecting	all your	open	loops,	applying	a	front-end	thought	process	to	each	of	them,	and managing	the	results	with	organization,	review,	and	action. 


 
Plans	get	you	into	things	but	you’ve	got	to	work	your	way	out. 


 
—Will	Rogers


For	all	those	situations	that	you	have	any	level	of	commitment	to	complete, there	is	a	natural	planning	process	that	occurs	to	get	you	from	here	to	there. 


Leveraging	that	five-phase	model	can	often	make	the	evolution	easier,	faster, and	more	productive. 


These	models	are	simple	to	understand	and	easy	to	implement.	Applying them	creates	remarkable	results.	You	need	essentially	no	new	skills—you already	know	how	to	write	things	down,	clarify	outcomes,	decide	next	actions, put	things	into	categories,	review	it	all,	and	make	intuitive	choices.  
Right	now
 you	have	the	ability	to	focus	on	successful	results,	brainstorm,	organize	your thinking,	and	get	moving	on	your	next	steps. 


But	just	knowing	how	to	do	all	of	those	things	does	not	produce	results. 


Merely	having	the	ability	to	be	highly	productive,	relaxed,	and	in	control	doesn’t make	you	that	way.	If	you’re	like	most	people,	you	could	use	a	coach—someone to	walk	you	step-by-step	through	the	experience	and	provide	some	guideposts and	handy	tricks	along	the	way,	until	your	new	operational	style	is	elegantly


embedded. 


You’ll	find	that	in	part	2. 


part


2


Practicing	Stress-Free


Productivity


4


Getting	Started:	Setting	Up	the	Time,	Space, 


and	Tools


IN	PART	2	
we’ll	move	from	a	conceptual	framework	and	limited	application	of workflow	mastery	to	full-scale	implementation	and	best	practices.	Going through	this	program	often	gives	people	a	level	of	relaxed	control	they	may never	have	experienced	before,	but	it	usually	requires	the	catalyst	of	step-by-step procedures	to	get	there.	To	that	end,	I’ll	provide	a	logical	sequence	of	things	to do,	to	make	it	as	easy	as	possible	for	you	to	get	on	board	and	glean	the	most value	from	these	techniques. 


Much	of	the	detail	in	this	section	can	easily	seem	more	than	you	can	digest	or implement	on	a	first	read.	It’s	included	to	provide	a	blow-by-blow	instruction manual	for	you	if	you’ve	decided	to	do	a	full-scale	implementation	of	the	model, which	could	take	at	least	two	full,	uninterrupted	days	to	implement.	It	is information	and	suggestions	you	will	very	likely	want	to	revisit	at	some	point,	to glean	a	new	level	of	application,	as	you	get	started	down	the	GTD	path. 


Implementation—Whether	All-Out	or	Casual—Is	a	Lot


About	“Tricks” 


If	you’re	not	sure	you’re	committed	to	an	all-out	implementation	of	these methods,	let	me	assure	you	that	much	of	the	value	people	get	from	this	material is	good	tricks.	Sometimes	just	one	good	trick	can	make	it	worthwhile	to	range through	this	information:	I’ve	had	people	tell	me,	for	example,	that	the	best	thing they	got	from	our	seminars	was	simply	the	two-minute	rule.	Tricks	are	for	the not-so-smart,	not-so-conscious	part	of	us.	To	a	great	degree,	the	highest-performing	people	I	know	are	those	who	have	installed	the	best	tricks	in	their lives.	I	know	that’s	true	of	me.	The	smart	part	of	us	sets	up	things	for	us	to	do


that	the	not-so-smart	part	responds	to	almost	automatically,	creating	behavior that	produces	high-performance	results.	We	trick	ourselves	into	doing	what	we ought	to	be	doing. 


 
It	is	easier	to	act	yourself	into	a	better	way	of	feeling	than	to	feel	yourself	into	a	better	way	of
 
action. 


 
—O.	H.	Mowrer


For	instance,	if	you’re	a	semi-regular	exerciser	like	I	am,	you	probably	have your	own	little	tricks	to	get	yourself	to	exercise.	My	best	trick	is	 
costume
—the clothing	I	put	on	or	take	off.	If	I	put	on	exercise	gear,	I’ll	start	to	feel	like exercising;	if	I	don’t	I’m	very	likely	to	feel	like	doing	something	else. 


Let’s	look	at	an	example	of	a	real	productivity	trick.	You’ve	probably	taken work	home	that	you	had	to	bring	back	the	next	day,	right?	It	was	mission-critical that	you	not	forget	it	the	next	morning.	So	where	did	you	put	it	the	night	before? 


Did	you	put	it	in	front	of	the	door,	or	on	your	keys,	so	you’d	be	sure	to	take	it with	you?	For	this	you	get	an	education?	What	a	sophisticated	piece	of	self-management	technology	you’ve	installed	in	your	life!	But	actually	that’s	just what	it	is.	The	smart	part	of	you	the	night	before	knows	that	the	not-so-smart part	of	you	first	thing	in	the	morning	may	barely	be	conscious.	“What’s	this	in front	of	the	door?	Oh,	that’s	right,	I’ve	got	to	take	this	with	me!” 


What	a	class	act.	But	really,	it	is.	It’s	a	trick	I	call	Put	It	in	Front	of	the	Door. 


For	our	purposes	the	“door”	is	going	to	be	the	door	of	your	mind,	not	your house.	But	it’s	the	same	idea. 


If	you	were	to	take	out	your	calendar	right	now	and	look	closely	at	every single	item	for	the	next	fourteen	days,	you’d	probably	come	up	with	 
at	least
	one


“Oh,	that	reminds	me,	I	need	to	_______.”	If	you	then	captured	that	value-added thought	into	some	place	that	would	trigger	you	to	act,	you’d	feel	better	already, have	a	clearer	head,	and	get	more	positive	things	done.	It’s	not	rocket	science, just	a	good	trick. 


If	you	take	out	a	clean	sheet	of	paper	right	now,	along	with	your	favorite writing	instrument,	and	for	three	minutes	focus	solely	on	the	most	awesome project	on	your	mind,	I	guarantee	you’ll	have	at	least	one	“Oh,	yeah,	I	need	to consider	______.”	Then	capture	what	shows	up	in	your	head	on	the	piece	of paper	and	put	it	where	you	might	actually	use	the	idea	or	information.	You won’t	be	one	ounce	smarter	than	you	were	ten	minutes	ago,	but	you’ll	have


added	value	to	your	work	and	life. 


The	big	secret	to	efficient	creative	and	productive	thinking	and	action	is	to	put	the	right	things	in your	focus	at	the	right	time. 


Much	of	learning	how	to	manage	workflow	in	a	masterful	way	is	about laying	out	the	gear	and	practicing	the	moves	so	that	the	requisite	thinking happens	more	automatically	and	it’s	a	lot	easier	to	get	engaged	in	the	game.	The suggestions	that	follow	about	getting	time,	space,	and	tools	in	place	are	all trusted	methods	for	making	things	happen	at	a	terrific	new	level. 


If	you’re	sincere	about	making	a	major	leap	forward	in	your	personal management	systems,	I	recommend	that	you	pay	close	attention	to	the	details and	follow	through	on	the	suggestions	provided	next	in	their	entirety.	The	whole will	be	greater	than	the	sum	of	the	parts.	You’ll	also	discover	that	the	execution of	this	program	will	produce	real	progress	on	real	things	that	are	going	on	in your	life	right	now.	We’ll	get	lots	done	that	you	want	to	get	done,	in	new	and efficient	ways	that	may	amaze	you. 


Setting	Aside	the	Time


 
Don’t	be	afraid	to	take	a	big	step	if	one	is	indicated.	You	can’t	cross	a	chasm	in	two	small
 
jumps. 


 
—David	L.	George


I	recommend	that	you	create	a	block	of	time	to	initialize	this	process	and	prepare a	workstation	with	the	appropriate	space,	furniture,	and	tools.	If	your	space	is properly	set	up	and	streamlined,	it	can	reduce	your	unconscious	resistance	to dealing	with	your	stuff	and	even	make	it	attractive	for	you	to	sit	down	and	crank through	your	input	and	your	work.	An	ideal	time	frame	for	most	people	is	two whole	days,	back	to	back.	(Don’t	be	put	off	by	that	if	you	don’t	have	that	long	to spend,	though:	doing	any	of	the	activities	I	suggest	will	be	useful,	no	matter	how much	or	how	little	time	you	devote	to	them.	Two	days	are	not	required	to	benefit from	these	techniques	and	principles—they	will	start	to	pay	off	almost	instantly.)


Implementing	the	full	capturing	process	can	take	up	to	six	hours	or	more,	and clarifying	and	deciding	on	actions	for	all	the	input	you’ll	want	to	externalize	and capture	in	your	system	can	easily	take	another	eight	hours.	Of	course,	you	can also	collect	and	process	your	stuff	in	chunks,	but	it’ll	be	much	easier	if	you	can tackle	that	front-end	portion	in	one	fell	swoop. 


The	ideal	time	for	me	to	work	with	someone	in	implementing	this


methodology	is	on	a	weekend	or	holiday,	because	the	chance	of	outside disturbance	is	minimal	then.	If	I	work	with	someone	on	a	typical	workday,	we first	make	sure	that	no	meetings	are	scheduled	and	only	emergency	interruptions are	allowed;	phone	calls	are	routed	to	voice	mail	or	logged	by	assistants	for review	and	handling	during	a	break.	I	don’t	recommend	using	after-hours	for this	work.	It	usually	means	seriously	reduced	horsepower	and	a	big	tendency	to get	caught	up	in	“rabbit	trails. 
”*


Dedicate	two	days	to	this	process,	and	it	will	be	worth	many	times	that	in	terms	of	your productivity	and	mental	health. 


For	many	of	the	executives	I	work	with,	holding	the	world	back	for	two contiguous	days	is	the	hardest	part	of	the	whole	process—the	perceived necessity	to	be	constantly	available	for	meetings	and	communications	when they’re	at	work	is	difficult	for	them	to	let	go	of.	That’s	why	we	often	resort	to weekends.	If	you	work	in	an	open	cubicle	or	office,	it	will	be	even	more	of	a challenge	to	isolate	sufficient	time	blocks	on	a	regular	workday	during	office hours. 


It’s	not	that	the	procedure	itself	is	so	sacred;	it’s	just	that	it	takes	a	lot	of mental	energy	to	capture	and	make	decisions	about	such	a	large	inventory	of open	loops,	especially	when	they’ve	been	open,	undecided,	or	stuck	for	way	too long.	Interruptions	can	double	the	time	it	takes	to	get	through	everything.	If	you can	get	to	ground	zero	in	one	contained	time	period,	it	gives	you	a	huge	sense	of control	and	accomplishment	and	frees	up	a	reservoir	of	energy	and	creativity. 


Later	on	you	can	maintain	your	system	in	shorter	spurts	“between	the	lines”	of your	regular	day. 


Setting	Up	the	Space


You’ll	need	to	choose	a	physical	location	to	serve	as	your	central	cockpit	of control.	If	you	already	have	a	desk	and	office	space	set	up	where	you	work, that’s	probably	the	best	place	to	start.	If	you	work	from	a	home	office,	obviously that	will	be	your	prime	location.	If	you	already	have	both,	you’ll	want	to establish	identical,	even	interchangeable	systems	in	both	places,	though	one	will probably	be	primary.	If	you	feel	that	you	don’t	have	either—you	really	don’t have	any	central	physical	spot	you	would	call	home	for	dealing	with	your	stuff


—it’s	imperative	that	you	create	one.	Even	if	you	have	a	mobile,	high-tech	life that	is	primarily	virtual,	you’ll	still	require	a	private	setting	as	a	base	camp	from which	to	operate.	You	will	want	to	implement	this	program	wherever	you	might actually	do	work	and	process	input,	but	starting	with	a	primary	location	is optimal. 


The	basics	for	a	workspace	are	just	a	writing	surface	and	room	for	an	in-tray, and	probably	(for	most	people)	space	for	core	digital	tools	as	well.	Some,	such as	a	foreman	in	a	machine	shop,	an	intake	nurse	on	a	hospital	floor,	or	your children’s	nanny,	won’t	need	much	more	than	that.	Most	homemakers	won’t necessarily	need	a	large	area	to	manage	their	workflow,	but	having	enough	of	a discrete	space	dedicated	to	the	processing	of	notes,	mail,	home	and	family projects	and	activities,	finances,	and	the	like	is	critical.	Usually	this	business-of-life	stuff	is	scattered	helter-skelter	in	the	kitchen,	in	the	hallway,	on	the	dining table,	on	book	and	media	shelves,	etc.,	with	a	numbing	effect. 


The	writing	surface	will	of	course	expand	for	most	professionals,	to	include	a phone	(and	charger),	a	computer,	stacking	trays,	working	file	drawers,	reference shelves.	Some	may	feel	the	need	for	a	printer,	whiteboards,	and/or	multimedia conferencing	equipment.	The	seriously	self-contained	will	also	want	gear	for exercise,	leisure,	and	hobbies. 


You	must	have	a	dedicated,	individual,	self-contained	workspace—at	home,	at	work,	and	even in	transit. 


A	functional	workspace	is	critical.	If	you	don’t	already	have	a	dedicated workspace	and	in-tray,	get	them	now.	That	goes	for	students,	homemakers,	and retirees,	too.	Everyone	must	have	a	physical	locus	of	control	from	which	to	deal with	everything	else. 


If	I	had	to	set	up	an	emergency	workstation	in	just	a	few	minutes,	I	would buy	an	unfinished	door,	place	it	on	top	of	two	two-drawer	filing	cabinets	(one	at


each	end),	place	three	stack	trays	on	it,	and	add	a	paper,	pad,	and	pen.	That would	be	my	home	base.	(If	I	had	time	to	sit	down,	I’d	also	buy	a	stool!)	Believe it	or	not,	I’ve	been	in	several	executive	offices	that	wouldn’t	be	as	functional. 


If	You	Go	to	an	Office,	You’ll	Still	Need	a	Space	at	Home


Don’t	skimp	on	workspace	at	home.	As	you’ll	discover	through	this	process,	it’s critical	that	you	have	at	least	a	satellite	home	system	identical	to	the	one	in	your office.	Many	people	I’ve	worked	with	have	been	somewhat	embarrassed	by	the degree	of	chaos	that	reigns	in	their	homes,	in	contrast	to	their	offices	at	work; they’ve	gotten	tremendous	value	from	giving	themselves	permission	to	establish the	same	setup	in	both	places.	If	you’re	like	many	of	them,	you’ll	find	that	a weekend	spent	setting	up	a	home	workstation	can	make	a	revolutionary	change in	your	ability	to	organize	your	life. 


An	Office	Space	in	Transit


If	you	move	around	much,	as	a	business	traveler	or	just	as	a	person	with	a mobile	lifestyle,	you’ll	also	want	to	set	up	an	efficiently	organized	micro-office-in-transit.	More	than	likely	this	will	consist	of	a	briefcase,	pack,	or	satchel	with appropriate	folders	and	portable	workstation	supplies. 


Many	people	lose	opportunities	to	be	productive	because	they’re	not equipped	to	take	advantage	of	the	odd	moments	and	windows	of	time	that	open up	as	they	move	from	one	place	to	another,	or	when	they’re	in	off-site environments.	The	combination	of	a	good	processing	style,	the	right	tools,	and good	interconnected	systems	at	home	and	at	work	can	make	traveling	a	highly leveraged	way	to	get	certain	kinds	of	work	done.	As	technology	continues	to deliver	both	more	powerful	mobile	hardware	and	fast	global	access	to	most	of us,	the	ability	to	virtually	manage	your	life	increases.	But	the	problem	inherent with	that	is	the	confusion	of	managing	the	traffic	that	ensues	with	all	the	options available	on	your	mobile	device(s).	Without	a	good	capturing,	clarifying,	and organizing	methodology	in	place,	with	the	appropriate	applications	and	tools structured	to	handle	it	as	it	happens,	the	new	world	of	global	mobile	access	will be	underutilized,	if	not	a	source	of	unproductive	distraction	and	stress	itself. 


Don’t	Share	Space! 


It	is	imperative	that	you	have	your	own	workspace—or	at	least	your	own	in-tray and	a	place	in	which	to	process	paper	and	physical	material.	Too	many	couples I’ve	worked	with	have	tried	to	work	out	of	a	single	desk	at	home,	and	it	always makes	light-years	of	difference	when	they	expand	to	two	workstations.	Far	from being	the	“separation”	they	expect,	the	move	in	fact	relieves	them	of	a	subtle stress	in	their	relationship	about	managing	the	stuff	of	their	shared	lives.	One couple	even	decided	to	set	up	an	additional	mini-workstation	in	the	kitchen	for the	stay-at-home	mom,	so	she	could	process	work	while	keeping	an	eye	on	their infant	in	the	family	room. 


You	need	to	 
use	
 your	system—not	continually	have	to	re-create	it. 


Some	organizations	are	interested	in	the	concept	of	“hotel-ing”—that	is, having	people	create	totally	self-contained	and	mobile	workstation	capabilities so	they	can	“plug	in”	anywhere	in	the	company,	at	any	time,	and	work	from there.	That	can	provide	savings	in	office	space	requirements,	as	companies operate	more	virtually	with	a	workforce	that	can	function	independently	from the	“mother	ship.”	But	that	presupposes	that	each	worker	involved	has	a	locus	of control	on	his	or	her	own.	Experiments	have	failed	in	this	scheme,	because	they disrupted	the	stable	workstation.	There	must	be	zero	resistance	to	using	the systems	we	have.	Having	to	continually	reinvent	our	in-tray,	our	filing	system, and	how	and	where	we	process	our	stuff	(“Where’s	a	darn	Post-it,	and	a stapler?!”)	can	only	be	a	source	of	incessant	distraction. 


You	can	work	virtually	anywhere	if	you	have	a	clean,	compact	system	and know	how	to	process	your	stuff	rapidly	and	portably.	But	you’ll	still	need	a home	base	with	a	well-grooved	set	of	tools	and	sufficient	space	for	all	the reference	and	support	material	that	you’ll	want	somewhere	close	at	hand	when you	land.	Most	people	I	work	with	need	at	least	two	file	drawers	for	their general-reference	and	project-support	types	of	paper-based	materials.	Given digital	scanners	and	the	continual	technology	advances	in	this	regard,	it	is conceivable	that	one	day	all	that	support	material	can	be	in	the	cloud	and retrievable	as	needed,	anywhere.	But	it	will	still	be	a	while	before	you	don’t need	your	physical	passport,	EU	cash	you	brought	back	from	your	trip	to	Milan, and	temporary	paper-based	documentation	of	all	sorts	that	remains	the	optimum way	to	handle	some	data.	Big	or	small,	that	inventory	of	reference	and	collateral items	needs	a	home,	with	easy	access	to	it. 


Getting	the	Tools	You’ll	Need


If	you’re	committed	to	a	full	implementation	of	this	workflow	process,	there	are some	basic	supplies	and	equipment	that	you’ll	need	to	get	you	started.	As	you	go along,	you’re	likely	to	dance	between	using	what	you’re	used	to	and	evaluating any	possibilities	for	new	and	different	gear	to	work	with. 


Note	that	good	tools	don’t	necessarily	have	to	be	expensive.	Often,	on	the low-tech	side,	the	more	“executive”	something	looks,	the	more	dysfunctional	it really	is. 


The	Basic	Processing	Tools


Let’s	assume	you’re	starting	from	scratch.	In	addition	to	a	desktop	workspace, you’ll	need:


Paper-holding	trays	(at	least	three)


A	stack	of	plain	letter-size	paper


A	pen/pencil


Post-its	(3×3"s)


Paper	clips


A	stapler	and	staples


Scotch	tape


Rubber	bands


An	automatic	labeler


File	folders


A	calendar


Wastebasket/recycling	bins


Current	tools	being	used	for	data	capture,	organizing,	and	to-do	lists, including	mobile	devices,	personal	computers,	and	paper-based	planners and	notebooks	(if	any)


Paper-Holding	Trays


These	will	serve	as	your	in-tray	and	out-tray,	with	one	or	two	others	for	work-in-progress	support	papers	and/or	your	read-and-review	stack.	The	most	functional trays	are	the	side-facing	letter-	or	legal-sized	stackable	kinds,	which	have	no


“lip”	on	them	to	keep	you	from	sliding	out	a	single	piece	of	paper. 


Plain	Paper


You’ll	use	plain	paper	for	the	initial	collection	process.	Believe	it	or	not,	putting one	thought	on	one	full-size	sheet	of	paper	can	have	enormous	value.	Most people	will	wind	up	processing	their	notes	into	some	sort	of	list	organizer,	but	by having	initial	thoughts	separated	into	discrete	placeholders	(versus	on	one amorphous	list),	it	makes	it	easier	to	wrestle	it	to	closure	later,	in	the	processing and	organizing	steps.	In	any	case,	it’s	important	to	have	plenty	of	letter-size writing	paper	or	tablets	around	to	make	capturing	ad	hoc	input	easy. 


Post-its,	Clips,	Stapler,	Etc. 


Moment-to-moment	collecting,	thinking,	processing,	and	organizing	are	challenging	enough; always	ensure	that	you	have	the	tools	to	make	them	as	easy	as	possible. 


Post-its,	clips,	stapler,	tape,	and	rubber	bands	will	come	in	handy	for	routing	and storing	paper-based	materials.	Though	their	use	is	diminishing,	we’re	not finished	with	paper	and	other	physical	materials	yet	(if	you	haven’t	noticed!), and	the	simple	tools	for	managing	them	are	essential. 


Labeler


The	labeler	is	a	surprisingly	useful	tool	in	this	process.	Thousands	of	people	we have	worked	with	now	have	their	own	automatic	labelers,	and	our	archives	are full	of	their	comments,	like	“Incredible—I	wouldn’t	have	believed	what	a difference	it	makes!”	The	labeler	will	be	used	to	label	file	folders,	binder	spines, and	numerous	other	things. 


I	prefer	a	stand-alone	tool	or	a	simple	plug-and-play	labeler	for	the	computer that	can	make	single	labels	in	the	moment,	reducing	any	friction	to	filing something	when	it	shows	up. 


File	Folders


You’ll	need	plenty	of	file	folders.	You	may	also	need	an	equal	number	of	file-folder	hangers,	if	your	filing	system	requires	them.	Plain-colored	folders	are	fine


—color-coding	is	a	level	of	complexity	that’s	hardly	ever	worth	the	effort.	Your general-reference	filing	system	should	just	be	a	simple	library
.*


Calendar


Although	you	may	not	need	a	calendar	just	to	collect	your	incomplete	items, you’ll	certainly	come	up	with	actions	that	need	to	be	put	there,	nonetheless.	As	I noted	earlier,	the	calendar	should	be	used	not	to	hold	action	lists	but	to	track	the


“hard	landscape”	of	things	that	have	to	get	done	on	a	specific	day	or	at	a	specific time. 


Most	professionals	these	days	already	have	some	sort	of	working	calendar system	in	place,	ranging	from	loose-leaf	organizers	to	mobile	devices	to	shared enterprise	software	applications. 


The	calendar	has	often	been	the	central	tool	that	people	rely	on	to	be


“organized.”	It’s	certainly	a	critical	component	in	managing	particular	kinds	of data	and	reminders	of	the	commitments	and	information	that	relate	to	specific times	and	days.	There	are	many	reminders	and	some	data	that	you	will	want	a calendar	for,	but	you	won’t	be	stopping	there:	your	calendar	will	need	to	be integrated	with	a	much	more	comprehensive	system	that	will	emerge	as	you apply	this	method. 


You	may	wonder	what	kind	of	calendar	would	be	best	to	use,	and	I’ll	discuss that	in	more	detail	in	the	next	chapter.	For	now,	just	keep	using	the	one	you’ve got.	After	you	develop	a	feel	for	the	whole	systematic	approach,	you’ll	have	a better	reference	point	for	deciding	about	graduating	to	a	different	tool. 


Wastebasket/Recycling	Bins


If	you’re	like	most	people,	when	you	implement	this	process	you’re	going	to	toss a	lot	more	stuff	than	you	expect,	so	get	ready	to	create	a	good	bit	of	trash.	Some executives	I	have	coached	have	found	it	extremely	useful	to	arrange	for	a	large trash	bin	to	be	parked	immediately	outside	their	offices	the	day	we	work together! 


Do	You	Need	an	Organizer? 


Once	you	know	how	to	process	your	stuff	and	what	to	organize,	you	really	just	need	to	create and	manage	lists. 


Whether	or	not	you	need	an	organizer	tool,	and	if	so,	what	kind,	will	depend	on a	number	of	factors.	Are	you	already	committed	to	using	something	for managing	lists	and	at-hand	reference	information?	How	do	you	want	to	see	your reminders	of	actions,	agendas,	and	projects?	Where	and	how	often	do	you	need to	review	them?	Because	your	head	is	not	the	place	in	which	to	hold	things, you’ll	obviously	need	something	to	manage	your	triggers	and	orient	yourself externally.	You	could	maintain	everything	in	a	purely	low-tech	fashion,	by keeping	pieces	of	paper	in	folders.	Or	you	could	even	use	a	paper-based notebook	or	planner,	or	a	digital	version	thereof.	Or	you	could	employ	some combination	of	these. 


All	of	the	low-tech	gear	listed	in	the	previous	section	is	used	for	various aspects	of	collecting,	processing,	and	organizing.	You’ll	use	a	tray	and	random paper	for	collecting.	As	you	process	your	in-tray,	you’ll	complete	many	less-than-two-minute	actions	that	will	require	Post-its,	a	stapler,	and	paper	clips.	The magazines,	articles,	and	paper	reports	and	documents	that	are	your	longer-than-two-minute	reading	will	go	in	another	of	the	trays.	And	you’ll	probably	have quite	a	bit	just	to	file	away.	What’s	left—maintaining	a	project	inventory, logging	calendar	items	and	action	and	agenda	reminders,	and	tracking	the	things you’re	waiting	for—will	require	some	form	of	lists,	or	reviewable	groupings	of similar	items. 


Lists	can	be	managed	in	a	low-tech	way,	as	pieces	of	paper	kept	in	a	file folder	(e.g.,	separate	sheets/notes	for	each	person	you	need	to	call	in	a	Calls	file, or	bills	to	pay	in	a	To	Pay	folder	or	tray),	or	they	can	be	arranged	in	a	more	mid-tech	fashion,	in	loose-leaf	notebooks	or	planners	(a	page	titled	Calls	with	the names	listed	down	the	sheet).	Or	they	can	be	high-tech,	digital	versions	(such	as a	Calls	category	in	the	Tasks	or	To-Do	section	of	a	software	application). 


In	addition	to	holding	portable	reference	material	(e.g.,	contact	info)	most organizing	tools	are	designed	for	managing	lists.	(Your	calendar	is	actually	a form	of	a	list,	with	time-	and	day-specific	action	reminders	listed chronologically.)


One	of	the	best	tricks	for	enhancing	your	productivity	is	having	organizing	tools	you	love	to	use. 


Probably	thousands	of	types	of	organizers	have	been	on	the	market	since	the latter	twentieth	century,	from	the	early	Day-Timers	and	Filofaxes,	to	the	more sophisticated	planners	like	Time/system	and	FranklinCovey,	to	the	retro	use	of	a simple	Moleskine	notebook,	to	the	current	flood	of	task-management	software applications. 
*


Should	you	implement	the	 
Getting	Things	Done
	process	in	what	you’re currently	using,	or	should	you	install	something	new?	The	answer	is,	do whichever	one	will	actually	help	you	change	your	behavior	so	you’ll	use	the tools	appropriately.	There	are	efficiency	factors	to	consider	here,	too.	Do	you	get a	lot	of	digital	information	that	would	be	easier	to	track	with	a	digital	tool?	Do you	need	a	paper-based	calendar	for	all	the	appointments	you	have	to	make	and change	rapidly	on	the	run?	Where	and	how	is	the	easiest	way	for	you	to	be reminded	of	calls	you	need	to	make	when	you’re	moving	fast?	And	so	on.	There are	also	the	aesthetic	and	enjoyment	factors.	I’ve	done	some	of	my	best	planning and	updating	for	myself	when	I	simply	wanted	some	excuse	to	use	(i.e.,	play with)	my	smartphone	while	waiting	for	dinner	alone	in	a	restaurant! 


If	your	reference	system	is	not	under	control,	it	creates	a	blockage	in	your	workflow	that	causes amorphous	content	to	back	up	into	your	world. 


Keep	in	mind,	though,	that	the	tool	you	use	will	not	give	you	stress-free productivity.	That	is	something	 
you
	create	by	implementing	the	GTD	method. 


The	structure	you	incorporate	 
will
	be	extremely	important	in	how	you	express and	implement	the	process,	but	it	is	not	a	substitute	for	it.	A	great	hammer doesn’t	make	a	great	carpenter;	but	a	great	carpenter	will	always	want	to	have	a great	hammer. 


When	considering	whether	to	get	and	use	any	organizing	tool,	and	if	so, which	one,	keep	in	mind	that	all	you	really	need	to	do	is	manage	lists.	You’ve got	to	be	able	to	create	a	list	on	the	run	and	review	it	easily	and	as	regularly	as you	need	to.	Once	you	know	what	to	put	on	the	lists	and	how	to	use	them,	the medium	really	doesn’t	matter.	Just	go	for	simplicity,	speed,	and	fun. 


The	Critical	Factor	of	a	Filing	System


You	will	resist	the	whole	process	of	capturing	information	if	your	reference	systems	are	not	fast, functional,	and	fun. 


A	simple	and	highly	functional	personal	reference	system	is	critical	to	this process.	The	filing	system	at	hand	is	one	of	the	first	things	I	assess	before beginning	the	workflow	process	in	anyone’s	office.	As	I	noted	in	chapter	2,	the lack	of	a	good	general-reference	system	can	be	one	of	the	greatest	obstacles	to implementing	a	personal	management	system,	and	for	most	of	the	executives	I have	coached,	it	represents	one	of	the	biggest	opportunities	for	improvement. 


It’s	not	because	the	content	is	so	important	or	strategic—it’s	rather	that, unmanaged,	it	inordinately	clouds	physical	and	mental	space.	Random nonactionable	but	potentially	relevant	material,	unprocessed	and	unorganized, produces	a	debilitating	psychological	noise.	More	important,	it	produces	a	block in	the	“flow”	part	of	workflow,	and	things	tend	to	back	up	into	the	area	like	we see	with	clogged	plumbing.	Many	times	I	have	driven	to	the	local	office-supply store	with	a	client	and	bought	a	filing	cabinet,	a	big	stack	of	file	folders,	and	a labeler,	just	so	we	could	create	an	appropriate	place	in	which	to	put	two-thirds	of the	stuff	lying	around	his	or	her	desk	and	office.	The	transformation	in	clarity and	focus	regarding	work	was	inevitably	dramatic. 


We’re	concerned	here	mostly	with	general-reference	filing—as	distinct	from discrete	filing	systems	devoted	to	contracts,	financial	information,	patient records,	or	other	categories	of	data	that	deserve	their	own	place	and	indexing. 


General-reference	files	should	hold	articles,	brochures,	pieces	of	paper,	notes, printouts,	documents,	and	even	physical	things	like	tickets,	keys,	buyers-club membership	cards,	and	flash	drives—basically	anything	that	you	want	to	keep for	its	interesting	or	useful	data	or	purpose	and	that	doesn’t	fit	into	your specialized	filing	systems	and	won’t	stand	up	by	itself	on	a	shelf	(as	will	large software	manuals	and	seminar	binders). 


If	you	are	a	digitally	oriented	person,	you	may	think	there’s	no	longer	any need	for	file	folders	for	physical	stuff.	At	some	point	in	the	future,	I	may	not need	a	physical	passport,	birth	certificate,	older	kitchen	appliance	instructions, medical	records,	keys	for	seldom-used	boxes,	or	paper	currency	from	countries	I will	revisit.	But	until	then,	I	need	a	coordinated	physical	place	to	park	them. 


 
To	capture	what	you	experience	and	sort	it	out	.	.	.	you	must	set	up	a	file.	.	.	.	Whenever	you	feel
 
strongly	about	events	or	ideas	you	must	try	not	to	let	them	pass	from	your	mind,	but	instead	to


 
formulate	them	for	your	files	and	in	so	doing	draw	out	their	implications,	show	yourself	how
 
foolish	these	feelings	or	ideas	are,	or	how	they	might	be	articulated	into	productive	shape. 


 
—C.	Wright	Mills


If	you	have	a	trusted	secretary	or	assistant	who	maintains	that	system	for	you, so	you	can	put	a	“File	as	X”	Post-it	on	the	document	and	send	it	out	to	him	or her,	great.	But	ask	yourself	if	you	have	some	potentially	interesting,	confidential, or	useful	support	material	that	should	be	accessible	at	any	moment,	even	when your	assistant	isn’t	around.	If	so,	you’ll	still	need	your	own	system	in	your	desk or	somewhere	near	it. 


The	same	dynamic	holds	true,	whether	reference	is	in	paper	or	digital	form. 


As	more	and	more	information	is	coming	to	us	virtually,	the	need	to	have general-reference	locations	for	ad	hoc	data	on	your	computer	or	mobile	device	is critical.	Many	people	are	still	using	their	e-mail	in-tray	area	as	an	amorphous general-reference	storage	place	(“I	need	to	keep	this	e-mail	because	it	has information	about	my	son’s	school	event	schedule”),	but	they	resist	making	an electronic	folder	named	“Robert”	or	“School	schedules”	in	their	e-mail application	in	which	to	drag	and	store	it,	or	copying	and	pasting	it	in	a	good reference	storage	program	or	database.	Software	is	now	available	that	allows capturing	and	categorizing	this	kind	of	information	(and	synchronizing	it	with multiple	devices),	but	it	does	require	some	thought	about	how	to	structure	it,	as well	as	some	directed	behavior	to	flow	this	kind	of	stuff	into	appropriate	places instead	of	complicating	and	confusing	your	digital	environment.	When	I instituted	a	new	general-reference	filing	application	on	my	computer,	it	required a	good	three	months	of	my	experimentation	to	find	the	optimal	way	to	organize it,	and	another	three	months	to	get	it	on	“cruise	control,”	so	now	I’m	just	 
using	
 it instead	of	thinking	so	much	 
about
	it. 


Success	Factors	for	Filing


I	strongly	suggest	that	you	maintain	a	personal,	at-hand	filing	system—both physical	and	digital.	It	should	take	you	less	than	one	minute	to	pick	something up	out	of	your	in-tray	or	print	it	from	e-mail,	decide	it	needs	no	next	action	but has	some	potential	future	value,	and	finish	storing	it	in	a	trusted	system.	The same	is	true	for	scanning	and	storing	documents	or	copying	and	pasting information	in	the	computer.	You	may	have	a	preponderance	of	digital	over


paper-based	reference	material	(or	vice	versa),	but	without	a	streamlined	system for	both,	you	will	resist	keeping	potentially	valuable	information,	or	what	you	do keep	will	accumulate	in	inappropriate	places.	If	it	takes	longer	than	a	minute	to file	something	in	an	easily	retrievable	format,	you’ll	likely	stack	it	or	stuff	it somewhere	instead.	Besides	being	fast,	the	system	needs	to	be	fun	and	easy, current	and	complete.	Otherwise	you’ll	unconsciously	resist	emptying	your	in-tray	because	you	know	there’s	likely	to	be	something	in	there	that	ought	to	get filed,	and	you	won’t	even	want	to	look	at	the	papers	or	your	clogged	e-mail. 


Take	heart:	I’ve	seen	people	go	from	resisting	to	actually	enjoying	sorting through	their	piles	and	digital	world	once	their	personal	filing	system	is	set	up and	humming. 


You	must	feel	equally	comfortable	about	filing	a	single	piece	of	paper	on	a new	topic—even	a	scribbled	note—in	its	own	file	as	you	would	about	filing	a more	formal,	larger	document.	Because	it	requires	so	much	work	to	make	and organize	files,	people	either	don’t	keep	them	or	have	junked-up	cabinets	and drawers	full	of	all	sorts	of	one-of-a-kind	items,	like	menus	for	the	local	takeout café	or	the	current	train	schedule.	If	you	trust	that	all	that	kind	of	information	is instantly	and	virtually	available	through	the	Web	and	you	would	never	need	to access	hard	copies,	then	make	sure	you’re	not	duplicating	systems	unnecessarily, and	that	what	you	choose	and	how	you	use	it	is	seamless. 


Whatever	you	need	to	do	to	get	your	reference	system	to	that	quick	and	easy standard	for	everything	it	has	to	hold,	do	it.	My	system	works	wonderfully	for me	and	for	many	others	who	try	it,	and	I	highly	recommend	that	you	consider incorporating	all	of	the	following	guidelines	to	really	make	reference	filing automatic. 


 
Keep	Your	General-Reference	Files	Immediately	at	Hand	
 Filing	has	to	be instantaneous	and	easy.	If	you	have	to	get	up	every	time	you	have	some	ad	hoc piece	of	paper	you	want	to	file,	or	you	have	to	search	multiple	places	on	your computer	for	an	appropriate	location	for	a	piece	of	information	you	want	to keep,	you’ll	tend	to	stack	it	or	leave	it	in	its	original	place	instead	of	filing	it. 


You’re	also	likely	to	resist	the	whole	in-tray	process	(because	you	know	there’s stuff	in	there	that	might	need	filing!).	Many	people	I	have	coached	have redesigned	their	office	space	so	they	have	plenty	of	general-reference	file drawers	literally	within	swivel	distance,	instead	of	across	the	room. 


 
One	Alpha	System	
 I	have	one	A–Z	alphabetical	physical	filing	system	for


general	reference,	not	multiple	ones.	My	e-mail	reference	folders	are	also organized	this	way.	People	have	a	tendency	to	want	to	use	their	files	as	a personal	management	system,	and	therefore	they	attempt	to	organize	them	in groupings	by	projects	or	areas	of	focus.	This	magnifies	geometrically	the number	of	places	something	 
isn’t
	when	you	forget	where	you	filed	it.	Once	you have	filtered	all	the	reminders	for	actions	into	your	next-action	lists,	this	kind	of data	is	simply	the	content	of	your	personal	library.	You	should	have	the	freedom to	be	as	much	of	a	pack	rat	as	you	wish.	The	only	issue	you	need	to	deal	with	is how	much	room	you	have	for	storage,	and	how	accessible	the	information	is when	you	need	it.	One	simple	alpha	system	files	everything	by	topic,	person, project,	or	company,	so	it	can	be	in	only	three	or	four	places	if	you	forget	exactly where	you	put	it.	You	can	usually	put	at	least	one	subset	of	topics	on	each	label, like	“Gardening—pots”	and	“Gardening—ideas.”	These	would	be	filed	under	G. 


Using	an	effectively	simple	and	easily	accessible	general-reference	filing	system	gives	you	the freedom	to	keep	as	much	information	as	you	want. 


The	digital	world	provides	the	advantage	of	the	search	function	across	a	wide swath	of	your	data,	and	the	ability	to	tag	content	with	key	words	adds	even	more capability	for	retrieval.	However,	with	so	many	options	and	locations	for	data storage,	that	power	also	can	easily	add	complexity	and	confusion.	Most	people	I know	who	are	even	moderately	busy	won’t	take	the	time	and	effort	to	use	these tools	to	catalog	all	their	stuff	within	all	their	possible	applications.	So,	though the	computer	gives	us	great	power	and	flexibility	and	opportunity	for	a	great reference	library,	it	creates	an	even	greater	challenge	to	design	your	own	simple and	effective	formats	for	referential	information.	Even	digitally,	it	is	very	helpful to	have	a	visual	map	sorted	in	ways	that	make	sense—either	by	indexes	or	data groups	organized	effectively,	usually	in	an	alpha	format.	To	find	restaurants	in London	that	I	like,	I	go	my	current	general-reference	application,	where	I	find


“Locales,”	then	“London,”	then	“Restaurants”—all	alphabetized	within	each level	of	abstraction. 


The	biggest	issue	for	digitally	oriented	people	is	that	the	ease	of	capturing and	storing	has	generated	a	write-only	syndrome:	all	they’re	doing	is	capturing information—not	actually	accessing	and	using	it	intelligently.	Some consciousness	needs	to	be	applied	to	keep	one’s	potentially	huge	digital	library functional,	versus	a	black	hole	of	data	easily	dumped	in	there	with	a	couple	of


keystrokes.	“I	don’t	need	to	organize	my	stuff,	because	the	search	feature	can find	it	sufficiently”	is,	from	what	I’ve	experienced,	quite	suboptimal	as	an approach.	We	need	to	have	a	way	to	overview	our	mass	of	collected	information with	some	form	of	effective	categorization. 


Every	once	in	a	while	someone	has	such	a	huge	amount	of	reference	material on	one	topic	or	project	that	it	should	be	put	in	its	own	discrete	drawer,	cabinet, or	digital	directory.	But	if	the	physical	material	is	less	than	half	a	file	drawer’s worth,	I	recommend	including	it	in	the	single	general	alphabetical	system.	And	if it	is	a	digital	grouping,	it	perhaps	deserves	its	own	place	as	a	subdirectory. 


 
Make	It	Easy	to	Create	a	New	Folder	
 I	keep	a	large	supply	of	new	file	folders instantly	at	hand	and	reachable	from	where	I	sit	to	process	my	in-tray.	Nothing	is worse	than	having	something	to	file	and	not	having	plenty	of	folders	to	grab from	to	make	the	process	easy.	Always	ensure	a	supply	within	reach.	The	virtual version	of	this	is	getting	comfortable	with	how	to	instantly	create	a	new directory	in	your	data-storage	software	as	needed. 


 
Make	Sure	You	Have	Plenty	of	Space	for	Easy	Storage	
 Always	try	to	keep	your physical	file	drawers	less	than	three-quarters	full.	If	they’re	stuffed,	you’ll unconsciously	resist	putting	things	in	there,	and	reference	materials	will	tend	to stack	up	instead.	If	a	drawer	is	starting	to	get	tight,	I	may	purge	it	while	I’m	on hold	on	the	phone.	If	you	have	any	attention	on	the	storage	room	in	your	digital devices,	it’s	a	good	time	to	review	and	purge. 


I	know	almost	no	one	who	doesn’t	have	overstuffed	file	drawers.	If	you	value your	cuticles,	and	if	you	want	to	get	rid	of	your	unconscious	resistance	to	filing, then	you	must	keep	the	drawers	loose	enough	that	you	can	insert	and	retrieve files	without	effort.	The	digital	version	of	this	is	having	any	concern	about	space on	the	computer	or	in	the	cloud.	A	judgment	call	you	consistently	have	to	make is	how	much	room	to	give	yourself	so	that	the	content	remains	meaningfully	and easily	accessible,	without	creating	a	black	hole	of	an	inordinate	amount	of information	amorphously	organized.	At	times	when	I’m	on	hold	on	the	phone, I’m	purging	my	e-mail	folders	and	old	document	directories. 


Some	people’s	reaction	to	this	is,	“I’d	have	to	buy	more	file	cabinets!”	or


“I’d	have	to	get	a	larger	hard	drive!”	as	if	that	were	something	horrible.	But	if the	stuff	is	worth	keeping,	it’s	worth	keeping	so	that	it’s	easily	accessible,	right? 


And	if	it’s	not,	then	why	are	you	keeping	it?	If	we’re	in	the	Information	Age, and	you’re	doing	 
anything
	that	hinders	your	usage	of	it	.	.	.	not	smart. 


You	may	need	to	create	another	tier	of	reference	storage	to	give	yourself sufficient	working	room	with	your	general-reference	files	at	hand.	Material	such as	finished	project	notes	and	“dead”	client	files	may	still	need	to	be	kept,	but they	can	be	stored	off-site,	on	storage	drives,	in	the	cloud,	or	at	least	out	of	your workspace. 


 
Label	Your	File	Folders	with	an	Auto	Labeler	
 No	matter	how	small	your inventory	of	physical	reference	materials	is,	you	need	to	stay	positively	engaged with	it.	Typeset	labels	change	the	nature	of	your	physical	files	and	your relationship	to	them.	Labeled	files	feel	comfortable	on	a	boardroom	table; everyone	can	identify	them;	you	can	easily	see	what	they	are	from	a	distance	and in	your	briefcase;	and	when	you	open	your	file	drawers,	you	get	to	see	what looks	almost	like	a	printed	index	of	your	files	in	alphabetical	order.	It	makes	it fun	to	open	the	drawer	to	find	or	insert	things. 


Things	you	name,	you	own.	Collected	but	unnamed	stuff	owns	you. 


Perhaps	later	in	this	new	millennium	the	brain	scientists	will	give	us	some esoteric	and	complex	neurological	explanation	for	why	labeled	files	work	so effectively.	Until	then,	trust	me.	Get	a	labeler.	And	get	your	own.	To	make	the whole	system	work	without	a	hitch,	you’ll	need	to	have	it	at	hand	all	the	time,	so you	can	file	something	whenever	you	want.	And	don’t	share!	If	you	have something	to	file	and	your	labeler’s	not	there,	you’ll	just	stack	the	material instead	of	filing	it.	The	labeler	should	be	as	basic	a	tool	as	your	stapler. 


In	the	fire	zone	of	real	work,	if	it	takes	longer	than	sixty	seconds	to	file	something	where	it belongs,	you	won’t	file,	you’ll	“stack.” 


 
Purge	Your	Files	at	Least	Once	a	Year	
 Cleaning	house	in	your	files	regularly keeps	them	from	going	stale	and	seeming	like	a	black	hole,	and	it	also	gives	you the	freedom	to	keep	anything	on	a	whim	“in	case	you	might	need	it.”	You	know everything	will	be	reassessed	within	a	few	months	anyway,	and	you	can	redecide then	what’s	worth	keeping	and	what	isn’t.	This	applies	equally	to	digital	as	well as	paper-based	reference	information.	As	I	said,	I	purge	my	files	while	I’m	on hold	on	the	phone	(or	marking	time	on	a	conference	call	that’s	dragging	on	and


on!). 


I	recommend	that	all	organizations	(if	they	don’t	have	one	already)	establish a	“purge	day,”	when	all	employees	get	to	come	to	work	in	jeans,	put	their	phone on	do-not-disturb,	and	get	current	with	all	their	stored	stuff
.*	
Large	trash	bins, recycle	containers,	and	“to	shred”	boxes	are	available,	and	everyone	has permission	to	spend	the	whole	day	in	purge	mode—around	their	office	and	on their	computer.	A	personal	purge	day	is	an	ideal	thing	to	put	into	your	tickler file,	either	during	the	holidays,	at	year’s	end,	or	around	early	spring	tax-preparation	time,	when	you	might	want	to	tie	it	in	with	archiving	the	previous year’s	financial	files. 


Filing	as	a	Success	Factor	Itself


Reference	and	support	materials	seldom	are	associated	with	urgency,	nor	are they	strategic,	in	the	grand	scheme	of	things.	Hence	their	management	is	very often	relegated	to	a	low	priority,	if	dealt	with	at	all.	The	problem,	however,	is that	your	mental	and	physical	workspaces	become	cluttered	with	nonactionable but	potentially	relevant	and	useful	stuff.	“What	is	this?”	“Why	is	this	here?” 


“What	should	I	do	with	this?”	and	“Where	is	what	I	need	to	access	right	now?” 


become	subliminal	voices	plaguing	the	consciousness	if	this	aspect	of	your world	is	not	rigorously	set	up	and	maintained. 


Wherever	items	of	different	character	or	meaning	are	piled	into	the	same	location,	it’s	too	much work	to	continually	think	about	the	nature	of	the	contents,	so	your	brain	will	go	numb	to	the	pile. 


Reference	materials	need	to	be	contained	and	organized	within	their	own discrete	boundaries—physically	and	digitally—so	that	they	don’t	cloud	other categories	in	your	system,	are	available	for	a	specific	purpose,	and	can	be accessed	efficiently.	Because	they	can	be	so	voluminous,	it	is	critical	that	they be	easily	managed	for	capturing,	sorting,	and	accessing	what	you	need,	when you	need	it,	and	that	they	don’t	get	in	the	way	of	the	more	action-oriented components	of	your	system.	I	have	spent	countless	hours	with	some	of	the	most sophisticated	professionals	in	the	world,	assisting	them	in	cleaning	up	and setting	up	a	simple	and	functional	reference	system,	and	the	results	have	often been	phenomenal	in	freeing	up	their	attention	for	the	bigger	things. 


One	Final	Thing	to	Prepare	.	.	. 


You’ve	blocked	off	some	time,	you’ve	gotten	a	work	area	set	up,	and	you’ve	got the	basic	tools	to	start	implementing	the	methodology.	Now	what? 


If	you’ve	decided	to	commit	a	certain	amount	of	time	to	setting	up	your workflow	system,	there’s	one	more	thing	that	you’ll	need	to	do	to	make	it maximally	effective:	you	must	clear	the	decks	of	any	other	commitments	for	the duration	of	the	session. 


If	there’s	someone	you	absolutely	need	to	call,	or	something	your	secretary has	to	handle	for	you	or	you	have	to	check	with	your	life	partner	about,	do	it 
now
.	Or	make	an	agreement	with	yourself	about	when	you	 
will
	do	it,	and	then put	some	reminder	of	that	where	you	won’t	miss	it.	It’s	critical	that	your	full attention	be	available	for	the	work	at	hand. 


Almost	without	exception,	when	I	sit	down	to	begin	coaching	people,	even though	they’ve	blocked	out	time	and	committed	significant	money	to	utilize	me as	a	resource	for	that	time,	they	still	have	things	they’re	going	to	have	to	do before	we	quit	for	the	day,	and	they	haven’t	arranged	for	them	yet	in	their	own systems.	“Oh,	yeah,	I’ve	got	to	call	this	client	back	sometime	today,”	they’ll	say, or	“I	have	to	check	in	with	my	spouse	to	see	if	he’s	gotten	the	tickets	for tonight.”	It	bespeaks	a	certain	lack	of	awareness	and	maturity	in	our	culture,	I think,	that	so	many	sophisticated	people	are	ignoring	those	levels	of responsibility	to	their	own	consciousness,	on	an	ongoing	operational	basis. 


So	have	you	handled	all	that?	Good.	Now	it’s	time	to	gather	representatives of	all	of	your	open	loops	into	one	place. 


5


Capturing:	Corralling	Your	“Stuff” 


IN	CHAPTER	2	
I	described	the	basic	procedures	for	capturing	your	potential	work	and meaningful	input.	This	chapter	will	lead	you	in	more	detail	through	the	process of	getting	all	your	incompletes,	all	your	“stuff,”	into	one	place—into	“in.”	That’s the	critical	first	step	in	getting	to	the	state	of	“mind	like	water.”	Just	gathering	a few	more	things	than	you	currently	have	will	probably	create	a	positive	feeling for	you.	But	if	you	can	hang	in	there	and	really	do	the	whole	capturing	process, 100	percent,	it	will	change	your	experience	dramatically	and	give	you	an important	new	reference	point	for	being	on	top	of	your	work	and	your	world. 


When	I	coach	a	client	through	this	process,	the	capture	phase	usually	takes between	one	and	six	hours,	though	it	did	take	an	entire	twenty	hours	with	one person	(finally	I	told	him,	“You	get	the	idea”).	It	can	take	longer	than	you	think if	you	are	committed	to	a	full-blown	collection	that	will	include	everything	at work	and	everywhere	else.	That	means	going	through	every	storage	area, including	your	computers,	and	every	nook	and	cranny	in	every	location, including	cars,	boats,	and	other	garages	and	homes,	if	you	have	them. 


Until	you’ve	captured	 
everything
	that	has	your	attention,	some	part	of	you	will	still	not	totally trust	that	you’re	working	with	the	whole	picture	of	your	world. 


Be	assured	that	if	you	give	yourself	at	least	a	couple	of	hours	to	tackle	this part,	you	can	grab	the	major	portion	of	things	outstanding.	And	you	can	even capture	the	rest	by	creating	relevant	placeholding	notes—for	example,	“Purge and	process	boat	storage	shed”	and	“Deal	with	hall	closet.” 


In	the	real	world,	you	probably	won’t	be	able	to	keep	your	stuff	100	percent collected	all	the	time.	If	you’re	like	most	people,	you’ll	move	too	fast	and	be engaged	in	too	many	things	during	the	course	of	a	week	to	get	all	your	ideas	and


commitments	captured	outside	your	head.	But	it	should	become	an	ideal standard	that	keeps	you	motivated	to	consistently	clean	house	of	all	the	things about	your	work	and	life	that	have	your	attention. 


Ready,	Set	.	.	. 


There	are	very	practical	reasons	to	gather	everything	before	you	start	clarifying it:


You	can	only	feel	good	about	what	you’re	not	doing	when	you	 
know
	everything	you’re	not doing. 


It	can	be	daunting	to	capture	in	one	location,	at	one	time,	all	the	things	that don’t	belong	where	they	are.	It	may	even	seem	a	little	counterintuitive,	because for	the	most	part,	most	of	that	stuff	was	not,	and	is	not,	“that	important”;	that’s why	it’s	still	lying	around.	It	wasn’t	an	urgent	thing	when	it	first	showed	up,	and probably	nothing’s	blown	up	yet	because	it	hasn’t	been	dealt	with.	It’s	the business	card	you	put	in	your	wallet	of	somebody	you	thought	you	might	want	to contact	sometime.	It’s	the	little	piece	of	techno-gear	in	the	bottom	desk	drawer that	you’re	missing	a	part	for,	or	haven’t	had	the	time	to	install	properly.	It’s	the printer	that	you	keep	telling	yourself	you’re	going	to	move	to	a	better	location	in your	office.	These	are	the	kinds	of	things	that	nag	at	you	but	that	you	haven’t decided	either	to	deal	with	or	to	drop	entirely	from	your	list	of	open	loops.	But because	you	think	there	still	 
could
	be	something	important	in	there,	that	stuff	is controlling	you	and	taking	up	more	of	your	energy	than	it	deserves. 


So	it’s	time	to	begin.	Grab	your	in-tray	and	half-inch	stack	of	plain	paper	for your	notes,	and	let’s	.	.	. 


.	.	.	Go! 


Physical	Gathering


The	first	activity	is	to	search	your	physical	environment	for	anything	that	doesn’t permanently	belong	where	it	is,	the	way	it	is,	and	put	it	into	your	in-tray.	You’ll


be	gathering	things	that	are	incomplete,	things	that	have	some	decision	about potential	action	tied	to	them.	They	all	go	into	“in,”	so	they’ll	be	available	for later	processing. 


What	Stays	Where	It	Is


The	best	way	to	create	a	clean	decision	about	whether	something	should	go	into the	in-tray	is	to	understand	clearly	what	 
shouldn’t
	go	in.	Here	are	the	four categories	of	things	that	can	remain	where	they	are,	the	way	they	are,	with	no action	tied	to	them:


Supplies


Reference	Material


Decoration


Equipment


 
Supplies	
.	.	.	include	anything	you	need	to	keep	because	you	use	it	regularly. 


Stationery,	business	cards,	stamps,	staples,	Post-it	pads,	paper	clips,	ballpoint refills,	batteries,	forms	you	need	to	fill	out	from	time	to	time,	rubber	bands—all of	these	qualify.	Many	people	also	have	a	“personal	supplies”	drawer	at	work containing	dental	floss,	Kleenex,	breath	mints,	and	so	on. 


 
Reference	Material	
.	.	.	is	anything	you	simply	keep	for	information	as	needed, such	as	manuals	for	your	software,	the	local	takeout	deli	menu,	your	kid’s	sports team	schedule,	or	your	list	of	internal	phone	extensions.	This	category	includes all	your	telephone	and	address	information,	any	material	relevant	to	projects, themes,	and	topics,	and	sources	such	as	dictionaries,	encyclopedias,	almanacs, and	bound	archives	of	corporate	records.	It	also	includes	books	and	magazines that	you	may	be	keeping	as	a	library. 


 
Decoration	
.	.	.	means	pictures	of	family,	artwork,	and	fun	and	inspiring	things pinned	to	your	bulletin	board.	You	also	might	have	plaques,	mementos,	and/or plants. 


 
Equipment	.	.	. 
 is	obviously	your	phone,	computer,	printer,	scanner,	wastebasket, furniture,	clock,	chargers,	pens,	and	notepads. 


You	no	doubt	have	a	lot	of	things	that	fall	into	these	four	categories—


basically	all	your	tools	and	your	gear,	which	have	no	actions	tied	to	them. 


Everything	else	goes	into	“in.”	But	many	of	the	things	you	might	initially interpret	as	supplies,	reference,	decoration,	or	equipment	could	also	have	action associated	with	them	because	they	still	aren’t	exactly	the	way	they	need	to	be. 


For	instance,	most	people	have,	in	their	desk	drawers,	on	their	shelves	and bulletin	boards,	and	tucked	away	in	computer	files	a	lot	of	materials	and information	that	either	are	out	of	date	or	need	to	be	organized	somewhere	else. 


Those	should	go	into	“in.”	Likewise,	if	your	supplies	drawer	is	out	of	control, full	of	lots	of	dead	or	unorganized	stuff,	that’s	an	incomplete	that	needs	to	be captured.	Are	the	photos	of	your	kids	current	ones?	Is	the	artwork	what	you	want on	the	wall?	Are	the	mementos	really	something	you	still	want	to	keep?	Is	the furniture	precisely	the	way	it	should	be?	Is	the	computer	set	up	the	way	you want	it?	Are	the	plants	in	your	office	alive?	In	other	words,	supplies,	reference materials,	decoration,	and	equipment	may	need	to	be	tossed	into	the	in-tray	if they’re	not	just	where	they	should	be,	the	way	they	should	be. 


Issues	About	Capturing


As	you	engage	in	the	capturing	step,	you	may	run	into	one	or	more	of	the following:


you’ve	got	a	lot	more	than	will	fit	into	one	in-tray; 


you’re	likely	to	get	derailed	into	purging	and	organizing; 


you	may	have	some	form	of	stuff	already	collected	and	organized;	and/or you’re	likely	to	run	across	some	critical	things	that	you	want	to	keep	in front	of	you. 


 
What	If	an	Item	Is	Too	Big	to	Go	in	the	In-Tray? 
 If	you	can’t	physically	put something	in	the	in-tray,	then	write	a	note	on	a	piece	of	letter-size	plain	paper	to represent	it.	For	instance,	if	you	have	a	poster	or	other	piece	of	artwork	behind the	door	to	your	office,	just	write	“Artwork	behind	door”	on	a	letter-size	piece	of paper	and	put	the	paper	in	the	in-tray. 


Be	sure	to	date	it,	too.	This	has	a	couple	of	benefits.	If	your	organization system	winds	up	containing	some	of	these	pieces	of	paper	representing something	else,	it’ll	be	useful	to	know	when	the	note	was	created.	It’s	also	just	a great	habit	to	date	everything	you	handwrite,	from	Post-it	notes	for	your


assistant,	to	voice	mails	you	transfer	onto	a	pad,	to	the	note	you	take	on	a	phone call	with	a	client.	If	you	are	using	a	digital	tool	that	has	a	date-stamp	function, it’s	great	to	use	that	for	the	same	reason.	The	3	percent	of	the	time	that	this	little piece	of	information	will	be	extremely	useful	makes	it	worth	developing	the simple	habit. 


 
What	If	the	Pile	Is	Too	Big	to	Fit	into	the	In-Tray? 
 If	you’re	like	98	percent	of the	people	we	work	with	individually,	your	initial	gathering	activity	will	collect much	more	than	can	be	comfortably	stacked	in	an	in-tray.	If	that’s	the	case,	just create	stacks	around	the	in-tray,	and	maybe	even	on	the	floor	below	it. 


Ultimately	you’ll	be	eliminating	the	stacks,	as	you	process	and	organize everything.	In	the	meantime,	though,	make	sure	that	there’s	some	obvious	visual distinction	between	the	stacks	that	are	“in”	and	everything	else. 


 
Instant	Dumping	
 If	it’s	immediately	evident	that	something	is	trash,	go	ahead and	toss	it	when	you	see	it.	For	some	of	my	clients,	this	marks	the	first	time	they have	ever	cleaned	their	center	desk	drawer! 


If	you’re	not	sure	what	something	is	or	whether	it’s	worth	keeping,	go	ahead and	put	it	into	“in.”	You’ll	be	able	to	decide	about	it	later,	when	you	process	the in-tray.	What	you	 
don’t
	want	to	do	is	to	let	yourself	get	wrapped	up	in	things piece-by-piece,	trying	to	decide	this	or	that.	Clarifying	requires	a	very	different mind-set	than	capturing;	it’s	best	to	do	them	separately.	You’ll	process	your stuff	later	anyway	if	it’s	in	“in,”	and	it’s	easier	to	make	those	kinds	of	choices when	you’re	in	that	decision-making	mode.	The	objective	for	the	capturing process	is	to	get	everything	into	“in”  
as	quickly	as	possible
	so	you’re appropriately	retrenched	and	have	“drawn	the	battle	lines.” 


 
No	person	who	can	read	is	ever	successful	at	cleaning	out	an	attic. 


 
—Ann	Landers


 
Be	Careful	of	the	Purge-and-Organize	Bug! 
 Many	people	get	hit	with	the	purge-and-organize	virus	as	they’re	going	through	various	areas	of	their	office	(and their	home).	If	that	happens	to	you,	it’s	OK,	so	long	as	you	have	a	major	open window	of	time	to	get	through	the	whole	process	(at	least	a	whole	week). 


Otherwise	you’ll	need	to	break	it	up	into	chunks	and	capture	them	as	little


projects	or	actions	to	do,	with	reminders	in	your	system,	like	“Purge	four-drawer cabinet”	or	“Clean	office	closet.” 


What	you	 
don’t
	want	to	do	is	let	yourself	get	caught	running	down	a	rabbit trail	cleaning	up	some	piece	of	your	work	and	then	not	be	able	to	get	through	the whole	action-management	implementation	process.	It	may	take	longer	than	you think,	and	you	want	to	go	for	the	gold	and	finish	processing	all	your	stuff	and setting	up	your	system	as	soon	as	possible. 


 
What	About	Things	That	Are	Already	on	Lists	and	in	Organizers? 
 You	may already	have	some	lists	and	some	sort	of	organization	system	in	place.	But unless	you’re	thoroughly	familiar	with	this	workflow-processing	model	and	have implemented	it	previously,	I	recommend	that	you	treat	those	lists	as	items	still	to be	processed,	like	everything	else	in	“in.”	You’ll	want	your	system	to	be consistent,	and	it’ll	be	necessary	to	evaluate	everything	from	the	same	viewpoint to	get	it	that	way
.*


 
“But	I	Can’t	Lose	That	Thing	.	.	.	!” 
 Often	in	the	capturing	process	someone	will run	across	a	piece	of	paper	or	a	document	that	causes	her	to	say,	“Oh,	my	God!	I forgot	about	that!	I’ve	got	to	deal	with	that!”	It	could	be	a	note	about	a	call	she was	supposed	to	handle	two	days	before,	or	some	meeting	notes	that	remind	her of	an	action	she	was	supposed	to	take	weeks	ago.	She	doesn’t	want	to	put whatever	it	is	in	the	huge	stack	of	other	stuff	in	her	in-tray	because	she’s	afraid she	might	lose	track	of	it	again. 


If	that	happens	to	you,	first	ask	yourself	if	it’s	something	that	really	 
has
	to	be handled	before	you	get	through	this	initial	implementation	time.	If	so,	best	deal with	it	immediately	so	you	get	it	off	your	mind.	If	not,	go	ahead	and	put	it	into


“in.”	You’re	going	to	get	all	that	processed	and	emptied	soon	anyway,	so	it won’t	be	lost. 


If	you	can’t	deal	with	the	action	in	the	moment,	and	you	still	just	 
have
	to have	the	reminder	right	in	front	of	you,	go	ahead	and	create	an	“emergency” 


stack	somewhere	close	at	hand.	It’s	not	an	ideal	solution,	but	it’ll	do.	Keep	in mind	that	some	potential	anxiousness	is	going	to	surface	as	you	make	your	stuff more	conscious	to	you	than	it’s	been.	Create	whatever	supports	you	need. 


Start	with	Your	Desktop


Ready	now?	OK.	Start	piling	those	things	on	your	desk	into	“in.”	Often	there’ll


be	numerous	things	right	at	hand	that	need	to	go	in	there.	Many	people	use	their whole	desktop	as	“in”;	if	you’re	one	of	them,	you’ll	have	several	stacks	around you	to	begin	your	collection	with.	Start	at	one	end	of	your	workspace	and	move around,	dealing	with	everything	you	come	across.	Typical	items	will	be: Stacks	of	mail,	memos,	reports,	reading	materials


Post-it	notes


Collected	business	cards


Receipts


Meeting	notes


It’s	easy	to	resist	and	avoid	picking	up	anything	in	your	world	that	you	know	requires	some thinking. 


Resist	the	urge	to	say,	as	almost	everyone	does	initially,	“Well,	I	know what’s	in	that	stack,	and	that’s	where	I	want	to	leave	it.”	That’s	exactly	what hasn’t	worked	before,	and	it	all	needs	to	go	into	the	in-tray.	I	have	never	had anyone	who	gave	in	and	actually	put	their	familiar	stacks	through	this	system who	didn’t	feel	a	ton	of	relief	when	they	did. 


As	you	go	around	your	desktop,	ask	yourself	if	you	have	any	intention	of changing	any	of	the	tools	or	equipment	there.	Are	your	mobile	devices	and phone	system	OK?	Your	computer?	The	desk	itself?	If	anything	needs	changing, write	a	note	about	it	and	toss	it	into	“in.” 


Desk	Drawers


Next	tackle	the	desk	drawers,	if	you	have	them,	one	at	a	time.	Any	attention	on anything	in	there?	Any	actionable	items?	Is	there	anything	that	doesn’t	belong there?	If	the	answer	to	any	of	these	questions	is	yes,	put	the	actionable	item	into


“in”	or	write	a	note	about	it.	Again,	whether	you	use	this	opportunity	to	clean and	organize	the	drawers	or	simply	make	a	note	to	do	it	later	will	depend	on	how much	time	you	have	and	how	much	stuff	is	in	there. 


Countertops


Continue	working	your	way	around	your	office,	collecting	everything	sitting	on


the	tops	of	cabinets	or	tables	or	counters	that	doesn’t	belong	there	permanently. 


Often	there	will	be	stacks	of	reading	material,	mail,	reports,	and	miscellaneous folders	and	support	material	for	action	and	projects.	Collect	it	all. 


Maybe	there	is	reference	material	that	you’ve	already	used	and	just	left	out. 


If	that’s	so,	and	if	you	can	return	it	to	the	file	cabinet	or	the	bookshelf	in	just	a second,	go	ahead	and	do	that.	Be	careful	to	check	with	yourself,	though,	about whether	there	is	some	potential	action	tied	to	the	material	before	you	put	it	away. 


If	there	is,	put	it	into	“in”	so	you	can	deal	with	it	later	in	the	process. 


Inside	the	Cabinets


Consider	whether	your	collectible	and	nostalgia	items	are	still	meaningful	to	you. 


Now	look	inside	the	cabinets.	What’s	in	there?	These	are	perfect	areas	for stashing	large	supplies	and	reference	materials,	and	equally	seductive	for holding	deeper	levels	of	stuff.	Any	broken	or	out-of-date	things	in	there?	Often I’ll	find	collectibles	and	nostalgia	that	aren’t	meaningful	to	the	person	any longer.	One	general	manager	of	an	insurance	office,	for	example,	wound	up tossing	out	at	least	three	dozen	recognition	awards	he	had	accumulated	over	the years. 


Again,	if	some	of	these	areas	are	out	of	control	and	need	purging	and organizing,	write	that	on	a	note	and	toss	it	into	“in.” 


Floors,	Walls,	and	Shelves


Anything	on	bulletin	boards	that	needs	action?	Anything	tacked	onto	the	walls that	doesn’t	belong	there?	Any	attention	on	your	pictures,	artwork,	plaques,	or decorations?	How	about	the	open	shelves?	Any	books	that	need	to	be	read	or donated?	Any	catalogs,	manuals,	or	binders	that	are	out	of	date	or	have	some potential	action	associated	with	them?	Any	piles	or	stacks	of	things	on	the	floor? 


Just	scoot	them	over	next	to	your	in-tray	to	add	to	the	inventory. 


Equipment,	Furniture,	and	Fixtures


Is	there	anything	you	want	to	do	to	or	change	about	any	of	your	office


equipment	or	furniture	or	the	physical	space	itself?	Does	everything	work?	Do you	have	all	the	lighting	you	need?	If	there	are	actionable	items,	you	know	what to	do:	make	a	note	and	put	it	in	“in.” 


Other	Locations


Don’t	let	things	to	be	handled	that	you	have	considered	“not	so	important”	gnaw	away	at	your energy	and	focus. 


Depending	on	the	scope	of	what	you’re	addressing	in	this	process,	you	may	want to	do	some	version	of	the	same	kind	of	gathering	anywhere	else	you	keep	stuff. 


As	I	mentioned	in	the	previous	chapter,	if	you’re	determined	to	get	to	a	really empty	head,	it’s	imperative	you	do	it	everywhere. 


Some	people	I	work	with	find	it	immensely	valuable	to	take	me	home	with them,	or	to	a	second	office	location,	and	have	me	walk	them	through	this	process there	as	well.	Often	they’ve	allowed	the	“not	so	important”	trap	to	ensnare	them in	their	home	life	and	secondary	workspaces,	and	it	has	gnawed	away	at	their energy. 


This	Is	Not	About	Throwing	Things	Away	That	You	Might	Want


People	often	mistake	my	advice	as	an	advocacy	for	radical	minimalism.	On	the contrary,	if	throwing	something	away	is	uncomfortable	for	you,	you	 
should
	keep it
.*
	Otherwise	you	would	have	attention	on	the	fact	that	you	now	don’t	have something	you	might	want	or	need.	My	counsel	is	how	to	assess	and	organize whatever	you	keep	in	your	ecosystem	so	that	it	doesn’t	pull	on	your	focus unnecessarily.	In	many	areas	I’m	a	confirmed	pack	rat	(such	as	with	digital photos).	The	issues	are	simply	how	much	room	you	have,	and	that	you	have made	the	appropriate	distinctions	that	don’t	leave	embedded	projects	and	actions submerged	in	what	you’re	keeping.	You	like	having	and	keeping	your	twelve boxes	of	old	journals	and	notes	from	college?	You	like	keeping	all	kinds	of	nutty toys	and	artwork	and	gadgets	around	your	office	to	spur	creative	thinking?	No problem,	as	long	as	they	are	where	you	want	them	to	be,	in	the	form	they’re	in, and	you	have	anything	you	want	or	need	to	do	about	that	captured	and	processed in	your	system. 


Mental	Gathering:	The	Mind	Sweep


Once	you	feel	you’ve	collected	all	the	physical	things	in	your	environment	that need	processing,	you’ll	want	to	collect	anything	else	that	may	be	residing	in	your mental	RAM	space.	What	has	your	attention	that	isn’t	represented	by	something already	in	your	in-tray? 


This	is	where	the	stack	of	plain	paper	really	comes	into	play.	I	recommend that	you	write	out	each	thought,	each	idea,	each	project	or	thing	that	has	your attention,	on	a	 
separate	sheet	of	paper
.	You	could	make	one	long	list	on	a	pad, or	in	some	digital	application,	but	given	how	you	will	later	be	processing	each item	individually,	it’s	actually	more	effective	on	separate	sheets.	There	is	a discipline	required	initially	to	stay	focused	on	one	item	at	a	time,	as	you	process it.	So	giving	each	thought	its	own	placeholder,	as	trivial	as	it	might	seem,	makes it	that	much	easier.	And	your	first	captured	thought	will	seldom	be	the	final content	you’ll	want	to	track	about	it	(the	desired	outcome	and	next	action	for	it will	be).	You	will	likely	not	keep	these	pieces	of	paper,	but	it’ll	be	handy	to	have them	as	discrete	items	to	deal	with	as	you’re	processing. 
*


It	will	probably	take	you	between	twenty	minutes	and	an	hour	to	clear	your head	onto	separate	notes,  
after	
 you’ve	gathered	everything	else.	You’ll	find	that things	will	tend	to	occur	to	you	in	somewhat	random	fashion—little	things,	big things,	personal	things,	professional	things,	in	no	particular	order. 


In	this	instance,	go	for	quantity.	It’s	much	better	to	overdo	this	process	than to	risk	missing	something.	You	can	always	toss	the	junk	later.	Your	first	idea may	be	“Implement	global	climate	change,”	and	then	you’ll	think,	“I	need	cat food!”	Grab	them	all.	Don’t	be	surprised	if	you	discover	you’ve	created	quite	a stack	of	paper	in	“in”	during	this	procedure. 


Triggers	List


To	assist	in	clearing	your	head,	you	may	want	to	review	the	following Incompletion	Triggers	list,	item	by	item,	to	see	if	you’ve	forgotten	anything. 


Often	you’ll	just	need	a	jog	to	unearth	something	lurking	in	the	back	of	your mind.	Remember,	when	something	occurs	to	you,	write	it	on	a	piece	of	paper and	toss	it	into	“in.” 


Incompletion	Triggers


Professional


Projects	started,	not	completed


Projects	that	need	to	be	started


“Look	into	.	.	.”	projects


Commitments/promises	to	others


Boss/partners


Colleagues


Subordinates


Others	in	organization


“Outside”	people


Customers


Other	organizations


Professionals


Vendors


Communications	to	make/get


Internal/external


Initiate	or	respond	to:


Phone	calls


Voice	mails


E-mails


Text	messages


Letters


Social	media	postings


Other	writing	to	finish/submit


Reports


Evaluations/reviews


Proposals


Articles


Marketing	materials


Manuals/instructions


Summaries


Rewrites	and	edits


Status	reporting


Conversation	and	communication	tracking


Meetings	that	need	to	be	set/requested


Who	needs	to	know	about	what	decisions? 


Significant	read/review


Financial


Cash


Budgets


Forecasts/projections


Profit	and	loss


Balance	sheet


Forecasting


Credit	line


Banks


Receivables


Payables


Petty	cash


Investors


Asset	management


Planning/organizing


Formal	planning	(goals,	targets,	objectives)


Current	projects	(next	stages)


Business	plans


Marketing	plans


Financial	plans


Organizational	initiatives


Upcoming	events


Meetings


Presentations


Conferences


Organizational	structuring


Changes	in	facilities


Installation	of	new	systems/equipment


Travel


Vacation


Business	trips


Organization	Development


Organization	chart


Restructuring


Roles


Job	descriptions


Facilities


New	systems


Leadership


Change	initiatives


Succession	planning


Organization	culture


Marketing/promotion


Campaigns


Materials


Public	relations


Administration


Legal


Insurance


Personnel


Staffing


Policies/procedures


Training


Staff


Hiring/firing/promoting


Reviews


Communication


Staff	development


Compensation


Feedback


Morale


Sales


Customers


Prospects


Leads


Sales	process


Training


Relationship	building


Reporting


Relationship	tracking


Customer	service


Systems


Mobile	devices


Phones


Computers


Software


Databases


Telecommunications


Internet


Filing	and	reference


Inventories


Storage


Office/site


Space/arrangements


Furniture


Equipment


Decorations


Utilities


Supplies


Maintenance/cleaning


Security


Meetings


Upcoming


Needing	to	be	set/requested


Need	debriefing


Professional	development


Training/seminars


Things	to	learn


Things	to	find	out


Skills	to	practice/develop


Books	to	read/study


Research


Formal	education	(licensing,	degrees)


Career	research


Résumé


Performance	objectives


Professional	wardrobe


Waiting	for	.	.	. 


Information


Delegated	tasks/projects


Completions	critical	to	projects


Answers	to	questions


Replies	to:


E-mails


Letters


Proposals


Calls


Invitations


Requisitions


Reimbursements


Insurance	claims


Ordered	items


Repairs


Tickets


Decisions	of	others


Personal


Projects	started,	not	completed


Projects	that	need	to	be	started


Projects—other	organizations


Service


Community


Volunteer


Spiritual	organization


Commitments/promises	to	others


Partner/spouse


Children


Parents


Family


Friends


Professionals


Returnable	items


Debts


Communications	to	make/get


Calls


E-mails


Cards	and	letters


Thank-yous


Texts


Social	media	postings


Upcoming	events


Birthdays


Anniversaries


Weddings


Graduations


Receptions


Outings


Holidays


Vacation


Travel


Dinners


Parties


Cultural	events


Sporting	events


Administration


Home	office	supplies


Equipment


Phones


Mobile	devices


Audio/video	media


Voice	mail


Computers


Software


Internet


Filing	and	records


Data	storage/backup


Leisure


Books


Music


Video


Travel


Places	to	visit


People	to	visit


Web	browsing


Photography


Sports	equipment


Hobbies


Cooking


Recreation


Financial


Bills


Banks


Investments


Loans


Taxes


Budget


Insurance


Mortgage


Bookkeeping


Accountants


Pets


Health


Training


Supplies


Legal


Wills


Trusts


Estate


Legal	affairs


Family	projects/activities


Partner/spouse


Children


Parents


Relatives


Home/household


Real	estate


Repairs


Construction


Remodeling


Landlords


Heating	and	air	conditioning


Plumbing


Utilities


Roof


Landscaping


Driveway


Garage


Walls


Floors


Ceilings


Decor


Furniture


Appliances


Lights	and	wiring


Kitchen	supplies/equipment


Laundry


Purging,	organizing,	cleaning


Storage


Service	providers


Health


Doctors


Dentist


Optometrist


Healthcare	specialists


Checkups


Diet


Food


Exercise


Personal	development


Classes


Seminars


Education


Coaching/counseling


Career


Creative	expressions


Transportation


Motor	vehicles


Bicycles


Maintenance


Repair


Commuting


Clothes


Professional


Casual


Formal


Sports


Accessories


Luggage


Repairs


Tailoring


Errands


Shopping


Stores


Hardware


Supplies


Groceries


Gifts


Pharmacy


Bank


Cleaners


Repairs


Community


Neighborhood


Neighbors


Service


Schools


Civic	involvement


Voting


Waiting	for


Product	orders


Repairs


Reimbursements


Loaned	items


Information


RSVPs


Projects/tasks	completed	by	family/friends


The	“In”	Inventory


Capturing	is	complete	when	you	can	easily	see	the	outer	edges	to	the	inventory	of	everything that	still	has	some	of	your	attention	in	any	way. 


If	your	head	is	empty	of	everything,	personally	and	professionally,	then	your	in-tray	is	probably	quite	full	and	likely	spilling	over.	In	addition	to	the	paper-based and	physical	items	in	your	in-tray,	your	inventory	of	“in”	should	include	any


resident	voice	mails	and	all	the	e-mails	that	are	currently	staged	in	the	“in”	area of	your	communication	software.	It	should	also	include	any	items	on	your organizer	lists	for	which	you	have	not	yet	determined	next	actions. 


I	usually	recommend	that	people	transfer	their	voice	mails	onto	paper	notes and	put	those	into	their	in-trays,	along	with	any	organizer	notebooks	they	may have	used,	the	contents	of	which	often	need	significant	reassessment.	If	you’ve been	using	a	digital	application	for	anything	other	than	calendar	and	contact information,	I	suggest	you	print	out	any	task	and	to-do	lists	and	put	them,	too, into	your	in-tray.	E-mails	are	best	left	where	they	are,	because	of	their	volume and	the	efficiency	factor	of	dealing	with	them	within	their	own	subsystem. 


But	“In”	Doesn’t	Stay	in	“In” 


When	you’ve	done	all	that,	you’re	ready	to	take	the	next	step.	You	don’t	want	to leave	anything	in	“in”	for	an	indefinite	period	of	time,	because	then	it	would without	fail	creep	back	into	your	consciousness,	since	your	mind	would	know you	weren’t	dealing	with	it.	Of	course,	one	of	the	main	factors	in	people’s resistance	to	collecting	stuff	into	“in”	is	the	lack	of	a	good	processing	and organizing	methodology	to	handle	it. 


That	brings	us	to	the	next	chapter:	“Getting	‘In’	to	Empty.” 


6


Clarifying:	Getting	“In”	to	Empty


ASSUMING	THAT	YOU	
have	collected	everything	that	has	your	attention,	your	job	now is	to	actually	get	to	the	bottom	of	“in.”	Getting	“in”	to	empty	doesn’t	mean actually	doing	all	the	actions	and	projects	that	you’ve	captured.	It	just	means identifying	each	item	and	deciding	what	it	is,	what	it	means,	and	what	you’re going	to	do	with	it. 


To	get	an	overview	of	this	process,	you	may	find	it	useful	here	to	refer	to	the Workflow	Diagram	on	page
	123. 
	The	center	column	illustrates	all	the	steps involved	in	processing	and	deciding	your	next	actions. 


This	chapter	focuses	on	the	components	in	the	diagram’s	center	column,	the steps	from	“in”	to	next	action.	You’ll	immediately	see	the	natural	organization that	results	from	following	this	process	for	each	of	your	open	loops.	For instance,	if	you	pick	up	something	from	“in”	and	realize,	“I’ve	got	to	call	Andrea about	that,	but	I’ve	got	to	do	it	on	Monday,	when	she’s	in	her	office,”	then	you’ll defer	that	action	immediately	and	enter	it	on	your	calendar	for	Monday. 


I	recommend	that	you	read	through	this	chapter	and	the	next	one,	on organizing	your	actions,	before	you	actually	start	processing	what	you’ve captured	in	“in.”	It	may	save	you	some	steps.	When	I	coach	people	through	this process,	it	invariably	becomes	a	dance	back	and	forth	between	the	simple decision-making	stage	of	 
processing
	the	open	loops	and	the	trickier	task	of figuring	out	the	best	way	to	enter	these	decisions	in	their	particular	 
organization
 systems. 




WORKFLOW	DIAGRAM—PROCESSING


Many	of	the	people	we	work	with,	for	example,	are	eager	to	get	set	up	on	a mobile	device	that	might	synchronize	with	the	enterprise	application	that	their company	is	using	for	e-mail	and	scheduling.	The	first	thing	we	would	have	to	do (after	we’ve	collected	the	in-tray)	is	make	sure	all	their	hardware	and	software are	working.	Then	we	clean	up	(print	out	and	erase,	usually)	everything	they have	previously	tried	to	organize	in	their	task	lists	and	put	it	all	into	“in.”	Then we	establish	some	working	categories	such	as	“Calls,”	“Errands,”	“Agendas,” 


“At	Computer,”	and	so	on.	As	we	begin	to	process	the	in-tray,	the	person	can	go immediately	to	his	computer	and	type	his	action	steps	directly	into	the	system	he will	ultimately	depend	on. 


If	you’re	not	sure	yet	what	you’re	going	to	be	using	as	a	personal	reminder system,	don’t	worry.	You	can	begin	very	appropriately	with	a	simple	loose-leaf notebook	or	whatever	you	may	be	currently	using	for	making	lists.	You	can always	upgrade	your	tools	later,	once	you	have	your	system	in	place. 


Processing	Guidelines


The	best	way	to	learn	this	model	is	by	doing.	But	there	are	a	few	basic	rules	to follow:


Process	the	top	item	first. 


Process	one	item	at	a	time. 


Never	put	anything	back	into	“in.” 


Top	Item	First


 
Process
	does	not	mean	“spend	time	on.” 


Even	if	the	second	item	down	is	a	personal	note	to	you	from	the	head	of	your country	and	the	top	item	is	a	piece	of	junk	mail,	you’ve	got	to	process	the	junk mail	first!	That’s	an	exaggeration	to	make	a	point,	but	the	principle	is	an important	one:	everything	gets	processed	equally.	The	verb	 
process
	does	not mean	“spend	time	on.”	It	just	means	“decide	what	the	thing	is	and	what	action	is


required,	and	then	dispatch	it	accordingly.”	You’re	going	to	get	to	the	bottom	of the	tray	as	soon	as	you	can	anyway,	and	you	don’t	want	to	avoid	dealing	with 
anything
	in	there. 


Emergency	Scanning	Is	Not	Clarifying


Most	people	get	to	their	in-tray	or	their	e-mail	and	look	for	the	most	urgent,	most fun,	easiest,	or	most	interesting	stuff	to	deal	with	first.	“Emergency	scanning”	is fine	and	necessary	sometimes	(I	do	it	regularly,	too).	Maybe	you’ve	just	come back	from	an	off-site	meeting	and	have	to	be	on	a	long	conference	call	in	fifteen minutes.	So	you	check	to	make	sure	there	are	no	land	mines	about	to	explode and	to	see	if	your	client	has	e-mailed	back	to	you	OK’ing	the	big	proposal. 


But	that’s	not	processing	your	in-tray;	it’s	emergency	scanning.	When	you’re in	processing	mode,	you	must	get	into	the	habit	of	starting	at	one	end	and	just cranking	through	items	one	at	a	time,	in	order.	As	soon	as	you	break	that	rule and	process	only	what	you	feel	like	processing,	in	whatever	order,	you’ll invariably	begin	to	leave	things	unprocessed.	Then	you	will	no	longer	have	a functioning	funnel,	and	it	will	back	up	all	over	your	desk	and	office	and	e-mail


“in”	repositories.	Many	people	live	in	this	emergency-scanning	mode,	always distracted	by	what’s	coming	into	“in,”	and	not	feeling	comfortable	if	they’re	not constantly	skimming	the	contents	on	their	computer	or	mobile	devices.	Were they	to	trust	“in”	would	be	totally	dealt	with	every	day	or	two,	they	wouldn’t	be so	driven	by	this	need	for	incessant	checking. 


LIFO	or	FIFO? 


The	in-tray	is	a	processing	station,	not	a	storage	bin. 


Theoretically	you	should	flip	your	in-tray	upside	down	and	process	first	the	first thing	that	came	in.	As	long	as	you	go	from	one	end	clear	through	to	the	other within	a	reasonable	period	of	time,	though,	it	won’t	make	much	difference. 


You’re	going	to	see	it	all	in	short	order	anyway.	And	if	you’re	going	to	attempt to	clear	up	a	big	backlog	of	e-mails	staged	in	“in,”	you’ll	actually	discover	it’s more	efficient	to	process	the	last-in	first	because	of	all	the	discussion	threads that	accumulate	on	top	of	one	another,	and	you	don’t	want	to	respond	to


something	prematurely	before	you’ve	seen	the	whole	discussion. 


One	Item	at	a	Time


You	may	find	you	have	a	tendency,	while	processing	your	in-tray,	to	pick something	up,	not	know	exactly	what	you	want	to	do	about	it,	and	then	let	your eyes	wander	to	another	item	farther	down	the	stack	and	get	engaged	with	 
it. 
	That item	may	be	more	attractive	to	you	because	you	know	right	away	what	to	do with	it—and	you	don’t	feel	like	thinking	about	what’s	in	your	hand.	This	is dangerous	territory.	What’s	in	your	hand	is	likely	to	land	on	a	“hmph”	stack	on the	side	of	your	desk	because	you	become	distracted	by	something	easier,	more important,	or	more	interesting	below	it. 


Thinking	about	the	stuff	you’ve	accumulated	usually	does	not	happen	naturally,	of	its	own accord.	You	must	apply	conscious	effort	to	get	yourself	to	think,	like	getting	yourself	to	exercise or	clean	house. 


Most	people	also	want	to	take	a	whole	stack	of	things	out	of	the	in-tray	at once,	put	it	right	in	front	of	them,	and	try	to	crank	through	it	all,	immediately. 


Although	I	empathize	with	the	desire	to	deal	with	a	big	chunk,	I	constantly remind	people	to	put	back	everything	but	the	one	item	on	top.	The	focus	on	just one	thing	forces	the	requisite	attention	and	decision	making	to	get	through	all your	stuff.	And	if	you	get	interrupted	(which	is	likely),	you	won’t	have	countless parts	of	“in”	scattered	around	outside	the	tray	and	out	of	control	again. 


The	Multitasking	Exception


There’s	a	subtle	exception	to	the	one-item-at-a-time	rule.	Some	personality	types really	need	to	shift	their	focus	away	from	something	for	at	least	a	minute	in order	to	make	a	decision	about	it.	When	I	see	this	going	on	with	someone,	I	let him	take	two	or	sometimes	three	things	out	at	once	as	he’s	processing.	It’s	then easier	and	faster	for	him	to	make	a	choice	about	the	action	required. 


Remember,	multitasking	is	an	exception—and	it	works	only	if	you	hold	to the	discipline	of	working	through	every	item	in	short	order,	and	never	avoid	any decision	for	longer	than	a	minute	or	two. 


Nothing	Goes	Back	into	“In” 


There’s	a	one-way	path	out	of	“in.”	This	is	actually	what	was	meant	by	the	old admonition	to	“handle	things	once,”	though	handling	things	just	once	is	in	fact	a bad	idea.	If	you	did	that,	you’d	never	have	a	list,	because	you	would	finish everything	as	soon	as	you	saw	it.	You’d	also	be	highly	ineffective	and inefficient,	since	most	things	you	deal	with	are	 
not
	to	be	acted	upon	the	first	time you	become	aware	of	them.	Where	the	advice	does	hold	is	in	eliminating	the	bad habit	of	continually	picking	things	up	out	of	“in,”	not	deciding	what	they	mean or	what	you’re	going	to	do	about	them,	and	then	just	leaving	them	there.	A	better admonition	would	be,	“The	first	time	you	pick	something	up	from	your	in-tray, decide	what	to	do	about	it	and	where	it	goes.	Never	put	it	back	in	‘in.’” 


The	cognitive	scientists	have	now	proven	the	reality	of	“decision	fatigue”—


that	every	decision	you	make,	little	or	big,	diminishes	a	limited	amount	of	your brain	power.	Deciding	to	“not	decide”	about	an	e-mail	or	anything	else	is another	one	of	those	decisions,	which	drains	your	psychological	fuel	tank. 


The	Key	Processing	Question:	“What’s	the	Next


Action?” 


 
I	am	rather	like	a	mosquito	in	a	nudist	camp;	I	know	what	I	want	to	do,	but	I	don’t	know	where
 
to	begin. 


 
—Stephen	Bayne


You’ve	got	the	message.	You’re	going	to	deal	with	one	item	at	a	time.	And you’re	going	to	make	a	firm	next-action	decision	about	each	one.	This	may sound	easy—and	it	is—but	it	requires	you	to	do	some	fast,	hard	thinking.	Much of	the	time	the	action	will	not	be	self-evident;	it	will	need	to	be	determined. 


On	that	first	item,	for	example,	do	you	need	to	call	someone?	Fill	something out?	Get	information	from	the	Web?	Buy	something	at	the	store?	Talk	to	your assistant?	E-mail	your	boss?	What?	If	there’s	an	action,	its	specific	nature	will determine	the	next	set	of	options.	But	what	if	you	say,	“There’s	really	nothing	to do	with	this”? 


What	If	There	Is	No	Action? 


It’s	likely	that	a	portion	of	your	in-tray	will	require	no	action.	There	will	be	three types	of	things	in	this	category:


Trash


Items	to	incubate


Reference	material


Trash


If	you’ve	been	following	my	suggestions,	you’ll	no	doubt	already	have	tossed out	a	big	pile	of	stuff.	It’s	also	likely	that	you	will	have	put	stacks	of	material into	“in”	that	include	things	you	don’t	need	anymore.	So	don’t	be	surprised	if there’s	still	a	lot	more	to	throw	away	as	you	process	your	stuff. 


Processing	all	the	things	in	your	world	will	make	you	more	conscious	of what	you	are	going	to	do	and	what	you	should	 
not
	be	doing.	One	director	of	a foundation	I	worked	with	discovered	that	he	had	allowed	way	too	many	e-mails (thousands!)	to	accumulate—e-mails	that	in	fact	he	wasn’t	ever	going	to	respond to	anyway.	He	told	me	that	using	my	method	forced	him	to	“go	on	a	healthy diet”	about	what	he	would	allow	to	hang	around	his	world	as	an	incompletion. 


It’s	likely	that	at	some	point	you’ll	come	up	against	the	question	of	whether or	not	to	keep	something	for	future	reference.	I	have	two	ways	of	dealing	with that:


When	in	doubt,	throw	it	out. 


When	in	doubt,	keep	it. 


Take	your	pick.	I	think	either	approach	is	fine.	You	just	need	to	trust	your intuition	and	be	realistic	about	your	space.	Most	people	have	some	angst	about all	of	this	because	their	systems	have	never	really	been	totally	functional	and clear-edged	before.	If	you	make	a	clean	distinction	between	what’s	reference	and supplies	and	what	requires	action,	and	if	your	reference	system	is	simple	and workable,	you	can	easily	keep	as	much	material	as	you	can	accommodate.	Since no	action	is	required	on	it,	it’s	just	a	matter	of	physical	space	and	logistics.	How big	would	you	like	your	reference	library	and	toolbox	to	be? 


Too	much	information	creates	the	same	result	as	too	little:	you	don’t	have	what	you	need,	when and	in	the	way	you	need	it. 


Filing	experts	can	offer	you	more	detailed	guidelines	about	all	this,	and	your accountant	can	provide	record-retention	timetables	that	will	tell	you	how	long you	should	keep	what	kinds	of	financial	documentation.	My	suggestion	is	that you	discriminate	about	whether	something	is	actionable	or	not.	Once	it’s	clear that	no	action	is	needed,	there’s	room	for	lots	of	options,	given	your	personal preferences	and	storage	and	access	capabilities. 


The	digital	world	offers	additional	opportunities	and	challenges	around	the what-to-keep	vs.	what-to-throw-away	decision.	Because	computer	and	cloud storage	spaces	seem	continually	to	grow	exponentially,	the	good	news	is	that	we are	forever	getting	much	more	room	to	store	much	more	stuff.	Additional	good news	is	the	powerful	search	functionality	that	has	grown	along	with	it.	The	bad news	is	that	it	can	easily	foster	indiscriminate	filing	and	a	lot	of	numbness	to	the volume	and	confusion	about	where	things	are,	even	as	good	as	search	functions might	be.	Because	digital	storage,	without	much	forethought,	has	become	almost automatic,	it	is	very	possible	to	create	an	environment	of	constant	input	but	no utilization.	You	are	creating	a	library	so	big	and	overwhelming,	you	have	limited your	capacity	to	make	it	functional	for	the	work	that’s	important	for	you	to	do. 


The	key	here	is	the	regular	reviewing	and	purging	of	outdated	information,	as	I suggested	in	a	previous	chapter,	as	well	as	more	conscious	filtering	on	the	front end,	as	you’re	processing	your	input:	“Is	this	really	necessary	or	useful	for	me	to keep,	or	can	I	trust	that	I	can	access	it	from	the	Internet	or	other	sources	if	I	need it?” 


Incubate


There	will	probably	be	things	in	your	in-tray	about	which	you	will	say	to yourself,	“There’s	nothing	to	do	on	this	now,	but	there	might	be	later.”	Examples of	this	would	be:


An	e-mail	announcing	a	chamber	of	commerce	breakfast	with	a	guest speaker	you	might	want	to	hear,	but	it’s	two	weeks	away,	and	you’re	not sure	yet	if	you’ll	be	at	home	then	or	out	of	town	on	a	business	trip. 


An	agenda	for	a	board	meeting	you’ve	been	invited	to	attend	in	three


weeks.	No	action	is	required	on	it,	other	than	your	briefing	yourself	a	day ahead	of	the	meeting	by	reading	the	agenda. 


An	advertisement	for	the	next	software	upgrade	for	one	of	your	favorite applications.	Do	you	really	need	this	next	version?	You	don’t	know;	you’d rather	sleep	on	it	for	another	week. 


An	idea	you	had	about	something	you	might	want	to	do	for	next	year’s annual	sales	meeting.	There’s	nothing	to	do	on	this	now,	but	you’d	like	to be	reminded	when	the	time	comes	to	start	planning	for	it. 


A	note	to	yourself	about	taking	a	watercolor	class,	which	you	have	zero time	for	right	now. 


What	do	you	do	with	these	kinds	of	things?	There	are	two	options	that	could work:


Write	them	on	a	Someday/Maybe	list. 


Put	a	reminder	of	them	on	your	calendar	or	in	a	tickler	file. 


It’s	fine	to	decide	not	to	decide	about	something.	You	just	need	a	decide-not-to-decide	system	to get	it	off	your	mind. 


The	point	of	all	of	these	incubation	procedures	is	that	they	give	you	a	way	to get	the	items	off	your	mind	 
right	now
	and	let	you	feel	confident	that	some reminder	of	the	possible	action	will	resurface	at	an	appropriate	time.	I’ll elaborate	on	these	in	more	detail	in	the	next	chapter,	on	organizing.	For	now, just	put	a	Post-it	on	such	items,	and	label	them	“maybe”	or	“remind	on	October 17,”	and	set	them	aside	in	a	Pending	category	you	will	be	accumulating	for	later sorting
.*


Reference


Many	of	the	things	you	will	uncover	in	“in”	will	need	no	action	but	may	have value	as	potentially	useful	information	about	projects	and	topics.	Ideally,	you have	already	set	up	a	workable	filing	system	(as	described	in	chapter	4)	for	your reference	and	support	information.	As	you	come	across	material	in	your	in-tray and	that	you	e-mail	(and	attachments	and	Web	links	therein)	that	you’d	like	to keep	for	archival	or	support	purposes,	file	it. 


You’ll	probably	discover	that	there	are	lots	of	miscellaneous	kinds	of	things that	you	want	to	keep	but	have	piled	up	in	stacks	or	stuffed	into	drawers	because your	reference	system	was	too	formal	or	just	plain	nonexistent.	Let	me	remind you	here	that	a	less-than-	sixty-second,	fun-to-use	general-reference	filing system	within	reach	of	where	you	sit	is	a	mission-critical	component	of	full implementation	of	this	methodology.	In	the	fast	lane	of	real	life,	if	it’s	not	easy, quick,	and	fun	to	file	something	away,	you’ll	stack	or	simply	accumulate	it	in


“in”	instead	of	organizing.	And	then	it	will	become	much	more	difficult	to	keep things	processed. 


Whenever	you	come	across	something	you	want	to	keep,	make	a	label	for	it, put	it	in	a	file	folder,	and	tuck	that	into	your	filing	drawer.	Or	put	a	Post-it	on	it instructing	your	assistant	to	do	the	same.	Or	appropriately	tag	or	categorize	it digitally.	In	my	early	days	of	coaching	I	used	to	give	my	clients	permission	to keep	a	To	File	pile.	No	longer.	I	discovered	that	if	you	can’t	get	it	into	your system	immediately,	you’re	probably	not	ever	going	to.	If	you	won’t	do	it	now, you	likely	won’t	do	it	later,	either. 


For	digital	inputs	that	you	want	to	keep	for	reference,	a	plethora	of	options present	themselves.	If	it’s	simply	an	e-mail	that	you	want	to	keep	so	you	can retrieve	it	later,	I	suggest	using	the	storage	folders	that	are	usually	available	in	e-mail	applications—often	in	the	navigator	column	on	the	side	of	the	user	window. 


Many	people	leave	these	nonactionable	e-mails	in	their	“in”	section	as	a	sort	of amorphous	filing	cabinet,	which	seriously	clogs	the	system.	You	should	feel	free to	instantly	create	a	new	reference	file	for	a	new	topic,	theme,	person,	or	project, and	drag	or	insert	the	e-mail	into	it	right	away. 


For	documents,	attachments,	text,	and	graphics	in	e-mail	that	you	might	want to	keep,	you	will	have	to	develop	your	own	filing	procedures.	These	days	there are	very	effective	document	storage	applications	in	the	cloud,	as	well	as	note-making	and	organizing	programs	accessible	from	multiple	devices.	The	power, variety,	and	rapid	evolvement	of	this	enabling	technology	belie	a recommendation	for	any	one	universal	best	practice.	It	behooves	each	of	us	to experiment,	customize,	and	modify	our	digital	libraries	for	what	works	best.	The key	to	keeping	it	effective	will	be	regular	revisiting	of	our	data	and	how	we’re organizing	it;	and	keeping	it	current	and	usable. 


Again,	the	key	driver	should	be:	Do	I	still	have	attention	on	my	reference content	or	system?	If	so,	create	a	project	and	next	action	to	unpack	that,	to	get this	significant	area	for	you	on	cruise	control. 


And	If	There	Is	an	Action	.	.	.	What	Is	It? 


 
Doing	a	straightforward,	clear-cut	task	that	has	a	beginning	and	an	end	balances	out	the
 
complexity-without-end	that	often	vexes	the	rest	of	my	life.	Sacred	simplicity. 


 
—Robert	Fulghum


This	is	perhaps	the	most	fundamental	practice	of	this	methodology.	If	there’s something	that	needs	to	be	done	about	the	item	in	“in,”	then	you	need	to	decide what,	exactly,	that	next	action	is.	“Next	action,”	again,	means	the	next	physical, visible	activity	that	would	be	required	to	move	the	situation	toward	closure. 


This	is	both	easier	and	more	difficult	than	it	sounds. 


The	next	action	 
should
	be	easy	to	figure	out,	but	there	are	often	some	quick analyses	and	several	planning	steps	that	haven’t	occurred	yet	in	your	mind,	and these	have	to	happen	before	you	can	determine	precisely	what	has	to	happen	to complete	the	item,	even	if	it’s	a	fairly	simple	one. 


Let’s	look	at	a	sample	list	of	the	things	that	a	person	might	typically	have	his or	her	attention	on. 


Clean	the	garage


Do	my	taxes


Conference	I’m	going	to


Bobby’s	birthday


Press	release


Performance	reviews


Management	changes


Although	each	of	these	items	may	seem	relatively	clear	as	a	task	or	project, determining	the	next	action	on	each	one	will	take	some	thought. 


Clean	the	garage


 
.	.	.	Well,	I	just	have	to	get	in	there	and	start.	No,	wait	a	minute,	there’s	a	big
 
refrigerator	in	there	that	I	need	to	get	rid	of	first.	I	should	find	out	if	John
 
Patrick	wants	it	for	his	camp.	I	should	.	.	. 


Call	John	re:	refrigerator	in	garage. 


 
What	about	.	.	. 


Do	my	taxes


 
.	.	.	but	I	actually	can’t	start	on	them	until	I	have	my	last	investment	income
 
documents	back.	Can’t	do	anything	until	then.	So	I’m	.	.	. 


Waiting	for	documents	from	Acme	Trust


 
And	for	the	.	.	. 


Conference	I’m	going	to


 
.	.	.	I	need	to	find	out	whether	Sandra	is	going	to	prepare	a	press	kit	for	us.	I
 
guess	I	need	to	.	.	. 


E-mail	Sandra	re:	press	kits	for	the	conference. 


.	.	.	and	so	forth.	The	action	steps—“Call	John,”	“Waiting	for	documents,” 


“E-mail	Sandra”—are	what	need	to	be	decided	about	everything	that	is actionable	in	your	in-tray. 


The	Action	Step	Needs	to	Be	the	Absolute	Next	Physical	Thing	to	Do
 Until	you	know	what	the	next	physical	action	is,	there’s	still	more	thinking	required	before anything	can	happen—before	you’re	appropriately	engaged. 


Remember	that	these	are	physical,	visible	activities.	Many	people	think	they’ve determined	the	next	action	when	they	get	it	down	to	“set	meeting.”	But	that’s	not the	next	action,	because	it’s	not	descriptive	of	physical	behavior.	How	do	you	set a	meeting?	Well,	it	could	be	with	a	phone	call	or	an	e-mail,	but	to	whom? 


Decide.	If	you	don’t	decide	now,	you’ll	still	have	to	decide	at	some	other	point, and	what	this	process	is	designed	to	do	is	actually	get	you	to	finish	the	thinking exercise	about	this	item.	If	you	haven’t	identified	the	next	physical	action required	to	kick-start	it,	there	will	be	a	psychological	gap	every	time	you	think about	it	even	vaguely.	You’ll	tend	to	resist	noticing	it,	which	leads	to


procrastination. 


When	you	get	to	a	phone	or	to	your	computer,	you	want	to	have	all	your thinking	completed	so	you	can	use	the	tools	you	have	and	the	location	you’re	in to	more	easily	get	things	done,	having	already	defined	what	there	is	to	do. 


Determine	what	physical	activity	needs	to	happen	to	get	you	to	decide. 


What	if	you	say	to	yourself,	“Well,	the	next	thing	I	need	to	do	is	decide	what to	do	about	this”?	That’s	a	tricky	one.	Deciding	isn’t	really	an	action,	because actions	take	time,	and	deciding	doesn’t.	There’s	always	some	physical	activity that	can	be	done	to	facilitate	your	decision	making.	Ninety-nine	percent	of	the time	you	just	need	more	information	before	you	can	make	a	decision.	That additional	information	can	come	from	external	sources	(“Call	Susan	to	get	her input	on	the	proposal”)	or	from	internal	thinking	(“Draft	ideas	about	new reorganization”).	Either	way,	there’s	still	a	next	action	to	be	determined	in	order to	move	the	project	forward. 


Once	You	Decide	What	the	Action	Step	Is


You	have	three	options	once	you	decide	what	the	next	action	really	is: 
Do	it
	(if	the	action	takes	less	than	two	minutes). 


 
Delegate	it
	(if	you’re	not	the	most	appropriate	person	to	do	the	action). 


 
Defer	it
	into	your	organization	system	as	an	option	for	work	to	do	later. 


Do	It


If	the	next	action	can	be	done	in	two	minutes	or	less,	do	it	when	you	first	pick the	item	up.	If	the	e-mail	requires	just	a	thirty-second	reading	and	then	a	quick yes/no/other	response	back	to	the	sender,	do	it	now.	If	you	can	browse	the catalog	in	just	a	minute	or	two	to	see	if	there	might	be	anything	of	interest	in	it, browse	away,	and	then	toss	it,	route	it,	or	reference	it	as	required.	If	the	next action	on	something	is	to	leave	a	quick	message	on	someone’s	voice	mail,	make the	call	now. 


Even	if	the	item	is	not	a	high-priority	one,	do	it	now	if	you’re	ever	going	to


do	it	at	all.	The	rationale	for	the	two-minute	rule	is	that	it’s	more	or	less	the	point where	it	starts	taking	longer	to	store	and	track	an	item	than	to	deal	with	it	the first	time	it’s	in	your	hands—in	other	words,	it’s	the	efficiency	cutoff.	If	the thing’s	not	important	enough	to	be	done,  
throw	it	away
.	If	it	is,	and	if	you’re going	to	do	it	sometime,	the	efficiency	factor	should	come	into	play. 


Many	people	find	that	getting	into	the	habit	of	following	the	two-minute	rule creates	a	dramatic	improvement	in	their	productivity.	One	vice	president	of	a large	software	company	told	me	that	it	gave	him	an	additional	hour	a	day	of quality	discretionary	time!	He	was	one	of	those	three-hundred-e-mail-a-day high-tech	executives,	highly	focused	for	most	of	the	workday	on	three	key initiatives.	Many	of	those	e-mails	were	from	people	who	reported	to	him—and they	needed	his	eyes	on	something,	his	comments	and	OKs,	in	order	to	move forward.	But	because	they	were	not	on	a	topic	in	his	rifle	sights,	he	would	just stage	the	e-mails	in	“in,”	to	get	to	“later.”	After	several	thousand	of	them	piled up,	he	would	have	to	go	in	to	work	and	spend	whole	weekends	trying	to	catch up.	That	would	have	been	OK	if	he	were	twenty-six,	when	everything’s	an adrenaline	rush	anyway,	but	he	was	in	his	thirties	and	had	young	kids.	Working all	weekend	was	no	longer	acceptable	behavior.	When	I	coached	him	he	went through	all	eight-hundred-plus	e-mails	he	currently	had	in	“in.”	It	turned	out	that a	lot	could	be	dumped,	quite	a	few	needed	to	be	filed	as	reference,	and	many others	required	less-than-two-minute	replies	that	he	whipped	through.	I	checked with	him	a	year	later,	and	he	was	still	current!	He	never	let	his	e-mails	mount	up beyond	a	screenful	anymore.	He	said	it	had	changed	the	nature	of	his	division because	of	the	dramatic	decrease	in	his	own	response	time.	His	staff	thought	he was	now	made	of	Teflon! 


The	two-minute	rule	is	magic. 


That’s	a	rather	dramatic	testimonial,	but	it’s	an	indication	of	just	how	critical some	of	these	simple	processing	behaviors	can	be,	especially	as	the	volume	and speed	of	the	input	increase	for	you	personally. 


Two	minutes	is	in	fact	just	a	guideline.	If	you	have	a	long	open	window	of time	in	which	to	process	your	in-tray,	you	can	extend	the	cutoff	for	each	item	to five	or	ten	minutes.	If	you’ve	got	to	get	to	the	bottom	of	all	your	input	rapidly,	in order	to	figure	out	how	best	to	use	your	afternoon,	then	you	may	want	to	shorten the	time	to	one	minute,	or	even	thirty	seconds,	so	you	can	get	through	everything


a	little	faster. 


You’ll	be	surprised	how	many	two-minute	actions	you	can	perform	even	on	your	most	critical projects. 


It’s	not	a	bad	idea	to	time	yourself	for	a	few	of	these	while	you’re	becoming familiar	with	the	process.	Most	people	I	work	with	have	difficulty	estimating how	long	two	minutes	actually	is,	and	they	greatly	underestimate	how	long certain	actions	are	likely	to	take.	For	instance,	if	your	action	is	to	leave	someone a	message,	and	you	get	the	real	person	instead	of	his	or	her	voice-mail,	the	call will	usually	take	quite	a	bit	longer	than	two	minutes. 


 
The	world	can	only	be	grasped	by	action,	not	by	contemplation.	The	hand	is	more	important
 
than	the	eye.	.	.	.	The	hand	is	the	cutting	edge	of	the	mind. 


 
—J.	Bronowski


There’s	nothing	you	really	need	to	track	about	your	two-minute	actions—you just	do	them.	If,	however,	you	take	an	action	and	don’t	finish	the	project	with that	one	action,	you’ll	need	to	clarify	what’s	next	on	it,	and	manage	that according	to	the	same	criteria.	For	instance,	if	you	act	to	replace	a	cartridge	in your	printer	and	discover	that	you’re	now	out	of	extra	cartridges,	you’ll	want	to decide	on	the	next	action	about	getting	them	(“Order	printer	cartridge	refills online”)	and	 
do
,  
	delegate
,  
 
 or	 
defer
	it	appropriately. 


Adhere	to	the	two-minute	rule	and	see	how	much	you	get	done	in	the	process of	clearing	out	your	“in”	stacks.	Many	people	are	amazed	by	how	many	two-minute	actions	are	possible,	often	on	some	of	their	most	critical	current	projects. 


They	are	also	delighted	with	applying	this	approach	to	small	incompletions	that have	been	lying	around	and	nagging	at	them	much	too	long. 


The	two-minute	rule	has	become	a	salvation	for	many	in	getting	control	of their	huge	e-mail	volume.	In	an	active	e-mail	environment,	it	is	likely	that	at least	30	percent	of	your	actionable	e-mails	will	require	less	than	two	minutes	to respond	and	dispatch	(assuming	you	have	decent	keyboard	skills).	If	you’re engaging	with	your	e-mail,	holding	to	this	suggestion	quite	significantly improves	responsiveness	and	productivity	in	your	ecosystem.	When	I	spend	time


with	someone	cleaning	up	his	or	her	e-mail	inventory,	invariably	there	are dozens	of	quick	actions	generated	that	“move	the	needle”	on	multiple	fronts, unsticking	significant	backlog. 


That	said,	you	shouldn’t	become	a	slave	to	spending	your	day	doing	two-minute	actions.	This	rule	should	be	applied	primarily	when	you	are	engaging with	new	input;	for	example,	processing	your	in-tray,	interacting	with	someone in	your	office	or	home,	or	simply	dealing	with	some	random	intersection	in	the hallway.	But	if	you	don’t	do	it	when	it	shows	up,	and	you	do	still	need	to	do	it, you	will	have	to	take	the	time	and	energy	to	capture,	clarify,	and	track	it,	to prevent	its	encroachment	into	your	head. 


Delegate	It


If	the	next	action	is	going	to	take	longer	than	two	minutes,	ask	yourself,	“Am	I the	best	person	to	be	doing	it?”	If	not,	hand	it	off	to	the	appropriate	party,	in	a systematic	format. 


Delegation	is	not	always	downstream.	You	may	decide,	“This	has	got	to	get over	to	Customer	Service,”	or	“My	boss	needs	to	put	her	eyes	on	this	next,”	or	“I need	my	partner’s	point	of	view	on	this.” 


A	systematic	format	could	be	any	of	the	following:


Send	the	appropriate	party	an	e-mail. 


Write	a	note	or	an	over-note	on	paper	and	route	the	item	out	to	that	person. 


Send	him	or	her	a	text	or	leave	a	voice	mail. 


Add	it	as	an	agenda	item	on	a	list	for	your	next	real-time	conversation	with that	person. 


Talk	to	him	or	her	directly,	either	face-to-face	or	by	phone,	text,	or	instant message. 


Although	any	of	these	options	can	work,	I	would	(with	some	exceptions) recommend	them	in	the	above	order,	top	to	bottom.	E-mail	is	usually	the	fastest mode	in	the	system;	it	provides	an	electronic	record;	and	the	receiver	gets	to	deal with	it	at	his	or	her	convenience.	Written	notes	are	next	because	they,	too,	can get	into	the	system	immediately,	and	the	recipient	then	has	a	physical	particle	to use	as	an	organizational	reminder.	If	you’re	passing	on	paper-based	material	as part	of	the	handoff,	a	written	communication	is	obviously	the	way	to	go;	as	with e-mail,	the	person	you	hand	it	off	to	can	then	deal	with	it	on	his	or	her	own


schedule.	Voice	mail	and	texting	can	be	efficient,	and	many	professionals	live	by it;	the	downside	is	that	tracking	becomes	an	additional	requirement	for	both	you and	the	recipient,	what	you	say	is	not	always	what	gets	heard,	and	texts	are infamously	cryptic.	Next	would	be	saving	the	communication	on	an	agenda	list or	in	a	folder	for	your	next	regular	meeting	with	the	person.	At	times	this	is necessary	because	of	the	sensitive	or	detailed	nature	of	the	topic,	but	it	then	must wait	to	get	moving	until	that	meeting	occurs.	The	least	preferable	option	would be	to	interrupt	what	both	you	and	the	person	are	doing	in	the	moment	to	talk about	the	item.	This	is	immediate,	but	it	hampers	workflow	for	both	of	you	and has	the	same	downside	as	voice	mail:	no	written	record. 


 
Tracking	the	Handoff	
 If	you	do	delegate	an	action	to	someone	else,	and	if	you care	at	all	whether	something	happens	as	a	result,	you’ll	need	to	track	it.	As	I walk	you	through	in	the	next	chapter,	about	organizing,	you’ll	see	that	a significant	category	to	manage	is	Waiting	For. 


As	you	develop	your	own	customized	system,	what	you	eventually	hand	off and	then	track	could	look	like	a	list	in	a	planner,	a	file	folder	holding	separate papers	for	each	item,	and/or	a	list	categorized	as	Waiting	For	in	your	software. 


For	now,	if	you	don’t	have	a	trusted	system	set	up	already,	just	put	a	note	on	a piece	of	paper—“W/F:	reply	from	Bob”—and	put	that	into	a	Pending	stack	of notes	in	a	separate	pile	or	tray	that	may	result	from	your	processing. 


 
What	If	the	Ball	Is	Already	in	Someone	Else’s	Court? 
 In	the	example	cited previously	about	waiting	for	some	documents	to	arrive	so	you	can	do	your	taxes, the	next	action	is	currently	on	someone	else’s	plate.	In	such	situations	you	will also	want	to	track	the	action	as	a	delegated	item,	or	as	a	Waiting	For.	On	the paper	that	says	“Do	my	taxes,”	write	something	like	“Waiting	for	tax	documents from	Acme	Trust”	and	put	that	into	your	Pending	stack. 


It’s	important	that	you	record	the	date	on	everything	that	you	hand	off	to others.	This,	of	all	the	categories	in	your	personal	system,	is	the	most	crucial	one to	keep	tabs	on.	The	few	times	you	will	actually	want	to	refer	to	that	information (“But	I	called	and	ordered	that	on	March	12”)	will	make	it	worth	establishing this	as	a	lifelong	habit. 


Defer	It


It’s	likely	that	most	of	the	next	actions	you	determine	for	things	in	“in”	will	be


yours	to	do	and	will	take	longer	than	two	minutes	to	complete.	A	call	you	need to	make	to	a	customer;	an	e-mail	to	your	team	that	you	need	to	spend	a	little	time thinking	about	and	drafting;	a	gift	you	need	to	buy	for	your	brother	at	the sporting	goods	store;	a	software	application	you	need	to	download	from	the	Web and	try	out;	a	conversation	you	must	have	with	your	life	partner	about	the	school you’re	thinking	of	sending	your	daughter	to—all	of	these	fit	that	description. 


These	actions	will	have	to	be	written	down	somewhere	and	then	organized	in the	appropriate	categories	so	you	can	access	them	when	you	need	to.	For	the moment,	go	ahead	and	put	Post-its	on	the	pieces	of	paper	in	“in,”	with	the	action written	on	them,	and	add	these	to	the	Pending	stack	of	papers	that	have	been processed. 


The	Pending	Things	That	Are	Left


If	you	follow	the	instructions	in	this	chapter,	you’ll	dump	a	mess	of	things,	file	a bunch,	do	a	lot	of	two-minute	actions,	and	hand	off	a	number	of	items	to	other people.	You’ll	also	wind	up	with	a	stack	of	items	that	have	actions	associated with	them	that	you	still	need	to	do—soon,	someday,	or	on	a	specific	date—and reminders	of	things	you’re	waiting	on	from	other	people.	This	Pending	group	is made	up	of	the	actions	you’ve	delegated	or	deferred.	It	is	what	still	needs	to	be organized	in	some	fashion	in	your	personal	system,	a	topic	I’ll	cover	in	step-by-step	detail	in	the	next	chapter. 


Identifying	the	 
Projects
	You	Have


This	last	step	in	getting	to	the	bottom	of	“in”	requires	a	shift	in	perspective	from the	single-action	details	to	the	larger	picture—your	projects. 


Again,	I	define	a	project	as	any	outcome	you’re	committed	to	achieving	that will	take	more	than	one	action	step	to	complete.	If	you	look	through	an inventory	of	actions	that	you	have	already	been	generating—“Call	Frank	about the	car	alarm”;	“E-mail	Bernadette	re:	conference	materials”—you’ll	no	doubt recognize	a	number	of	things	that	are	larger	than	the	single	action	you’ve defined.	There’s	still	going	to	be	something	to	do	about	the	car	alarm	after	the call	to	Frank,	and	there	will	still	be	something	to	handle	about	the	conference after	the	e-mail	to	Bernadette. 


I	hope	you’re	able	to	see	the	very	practical	reason	for	defining	projects	as broadly	as	I	do:	if	the	action	step	you’ve	identified	will	not	complete	the commitment,	then	you’ll	need	some	stake	in	the	ground	to	keep	reminding	you of	actions	you	have	pending	until	you	have	closure.	You	need	to	make	a	list	of projects.	A	“Projects”	list	may	include	anything	from	“Give	holiday	party”	to


“Divest	the	software	product	line”	to	“Finalize	compensation	package.”	The purpose	of	this	list	is	not	to	reflect	your	priorities	but	just	to	ensure	that	you’ve got	placeholders	for	all	those	open	loops. 


Right	now	you	probably	have	between	thirty	and	a	hundred	projects. 


Whether	you	draw	up	your	Projects	list	while	you’re	initially	processing	your in-tray	or	after	you’ve	set	up	your	action	lists	doesn’t	really	matter.	It	just	needs to	be	done	at	 
some	
 point,	and	it	must	be	maintained,	as	it’s	the	key	driver	for reviewing	where	you	are	and	where	you	want	to	be,	and	to	maintain	a	sense	of week-to-week	control	of	your	life. 


For	now,	let’s	make	sure	your	organizing	setup	is	“all	systems	go.” 


7


Organizing:	Setting	Up	the	Right	Buckets


Airtight	organization	is	required	for	your	focus	to	remain	on	the	broader	horizon	and	eliminate the	constant	pressure	to	remember	or	be	reminded. 


HAVING	A	TOTAL	
and	seamless	system	of	organization	in	place	gives	you	tremendous power	because	it	allows	your	mind	to	let	go	of	lower-level	thinking	and	graduate to	intuitive	focusing,	undistracted	by	matters	that	haven’t	been	dealt	with appropriately.	But	your	physical	organization	system	must	be	better	than	your mental	one	in	order	for	that	to	happen. 


Being	organized	means	nothing	more	or	less	than	where	something	is matches	what	it	means	to	you.	If	you	decide	you	want	to	keep	something	as reference	and	you	put	it	where	your	reference	material	needs	to	be,	that’s organized.	If	you	think	you	need	a	reminder	about	a	call	you	need	to	make,	as long	as	you	put	that	reminder	where	you	want	reminders	of	phone	calls	to	make, you’re	organized.	As	simple	as	that	sounds,	it	begs	a	very	big	question:	What does	something	 
mean
	to	you?	It	turns	out	that	much	of	what	people	are	trying	to organize	has	not	been	clarified,	as	per	the	previous	chapter.	And	even	once	it has,	there	are	more	refined	distinctions	that	are	possible,	which	will	add	greater creativity	and	control	for	you.	I	will	expand	on	some	of	those	in	this	chapter,	as I’ll	lead	you	through	the	organizing	steps	and	tools	that	will	be	required	as	you process	your	in-tray.	As	you	initially	process	“in,”	you’ll	create	lists	and groupings	of	things	you	want	to	organize	and	you’ll	invariably	think	of additional	items	to	include.	In	other	words,	your	organization	system	is	not something	that	you’ll	necessarily	create	all	at	once,	in	a	vacuum.	It	will	evolve as	you	process	your	stuff	and	test	out	whether	you	have	put	everything	in	the best	place	for	 
you
.  
 
 It	should	and	will	evolve,	as	you	do.	The	core	distinctions	of what	things	mean	to	you	will	be	true	forever,	but	the	best	structure	for	you	to


manage	them	a	year	from	now	may	look	different	than	what	you	come	up	with dealing	with	your	world	today. 


 
I	must	Create	a	System	or	be	enslav’d	by	another	Man’s. 


 
—William	Blake


The	outer	ring	of	the	Workflow	Diagram	(opposite)	shows	the	main groupings	into	which	things	will	go	as	you	decide	what	they	are	and	what	needs to	be	done	about	them. 


The	Basic	Categories


There	are	seven	primary	types	of	things	that	you’ll	want	to	keep	track	of	and manage	from	an	organizational	and	operational	perspective:


A	Projects	list


Project	support	material


Calendar	actions	and	information


Next	Actions	lists


A	Waiting	For	list


Reference	material


A	Someday/Maybe	list


The	Importance	of	Hard	Edges


It’s	critical	that	all	of	these	categories	be	kept	pristinely	distinct	from	one another.	They	each	represent	a	discrete	type	of	agreement	we	make	with ourselves,	to	be	reminded	of	at	a	specific	time	and	in	a	specific	way,	and	if	they lose	their	edges	and	begin	to	blend,	much	of	the	value	of	organizing	will	be	lost. 




WORKFLOW	DIAGRAM—ORGANIZING


That’s	why	capturing	and	clarifying	what	your	relationship	to	them	is, specifically,	is	primary	to	getting	organized.	Most	people	try	to	create	more control	in	their	world	by	just	“getting	organized,”	and	they	wind	up	rearranging incomplete	inventories	of	still	unclear	things.	Once	you’ve	gone	through	my previously	suggested	processes,	however,	you	will	have	very	clear	contents	of what	you	need	to	track,	and	a	very	practical	way	to	sort	them	and	create	their descriptors. 


The	categories	must	be	kept	visually,	physically,	and	psychologically	separate,	to	promote clarity. 


If	you	neglect	this	categorization,	and	allow	things	of	different	meanings	into the	same	visual	or	mental	grouping,	you	will	tend	to	go	psychologically	numb	to the	contents.	If	you	put	reference	materials	in	the	same	pile	as	things	you	still want	to	read,	for	example,	you’ll	go	unconscious	to	the	stack.	If	you	put	items	on your	Next	Actions	lists	that	really	need	to	go	on	the	calendar,	because	they	have to	occur	on	specific	days,	then	you	won’t	trust	your	calendar	and	you’ll continually	have	to	reassess	your	action	lists.	If	you	have	projects	that	you’re	not going	to	be	doing	anything	about	for	some	time,	they	must	go	on	your Someday/Maybe	list	so	you	can	relate	to	the	Projects	list	with	the	rigorous action-generating	focus	it	needs.	And	if	something	you’re	Waiting	For	is included	on	one	of	your	action	lists,	nonproductive	rethinking	will	continually bog	you	down. 


All	You	Really	Need	Are	Lists	and	Folders


Once	you	know	what	you	need	to	keep	track	of	(covered	in	the	previous	chapter, 


“Clarifying”),	all	you	really	need	are	lists	and	folders—totally	sufficient	tools	for reminders,	reference,	and	support	materials.	Your	lists	(which,	as	I’ve	indicated, could	also	be	items	in	folders)	will	keep	track	of	projects	and	someday/maybes, as	well	as	the	actions	you’ll	need	to	take	on	your	active	open	loops.	Folders (digital	or	paper	based)	will	be	required	to	hold	your	reference	material	and	the support	information	for	active	projects. 


 
I	would	not	give	a	fig	for	the	simplicity	on	this	side	of	complexity,	but	I	would	give	my	life	for	the
 
simplicity	on	the	other	side	of	complexity. 


 
—Oliver	Wendell	Holmes


Lots	of	people	have	been	making	lists	for	years	but	have	never	found	the procedure	to	be	particularly	effective.	There’s	rampant	skepticism	about	systems as	simple	as	the	one	I’m	recommending.	But	most	list	makers	haven’t	put	the appropriate	things	 
on
	their	lists,	or	have	left	them	incomplete,	which	has	kept	the lists	themselves	from	being	very	functional	for	keeping	your	head	clear.	Once you	know	what	goes	on	the	lists,	however,	things	get	much	easier;	then	you	just need	a	way	to	manage	them. 


As	I’ve	said,	you	shouldn’t	bother	to	create	some	external	structuring	of	the priorities	on	your	lists	that	you’ll	then	have	to	rearrange	or	rewrite	as	things change.	Attempting	to	impose	such	scaffolding	has	been	a	big	source	of frustration	in	many	people’s	organizing.	You’ll	be	prioritizing	more	intuitively as	you	see	the	whole	list	against	quite	a	number	of	shifting	variables.	The	list	is just	a	way	for	you	to	keep	track	of	the	total	inventory	of	active	things	to	which you	have	made	a	commitment,	and	to	have	that	inventory	available	for	review. 


When	I	refer	to	a	“list,”	keep	in	mind	that	I	mean	nothing	more	than	a grouping	of	items	with	some	similar	characteristic.	A	list	could	look	like	one	of at	least	three	things:	(1)	a	file	folder	or	container	with	separate	paper	notes	for the	items	within	the	category;	(2)	an	actual	list	on	a	titled	piece	of	paper	(often within	a	loose-leaf	organizer	or	planner);	or	(3)	an	inventory	of	items	on	a	list	in a	software	program	or	in	a	digital	mobile	device. 


Organizing	Action	Reminders


If	you’ve	emptied	your	in-tray,	you’ll	undoubtedly	have	created	a	stack	of Pending	reminders	for	yourself,	representing	longer-than-two-minute	actions that	cannot	be	delegated	to	someone	else.	You’ll	probably	have	anywhere	from twenty	to	sixty	or	seventy	or	more	such	items.	You’ll	also	have	accumulated reminders	of	things	that	you’ve	handed	off	to	other	people,	and	perhaps	some things	that	need	to	be	placed	on	your	calendar	or	in	a	Someday/Maybe	holder. 


You’ll	want	to	sort	all	of	this	into	groupings	that	make	sense	to	you	so	you


can	review	them	as	options	for	work	to	do	when	you	have	time.	You’ll	also	want to	divide	them	in	the	most	appropriate	way	physically	to	organize	those	groups, whether	as	items	in	folders	or	on	lists,	either	paper	based	or	digital. 


The	Actions	That	Go	on	Your	Calendar


For	the	purposes	of	organization,	as	I’ve	said,	there	are	two	basic	kinds	of actions:	those	that	must	be	done	on	a	certain	day	and/or	at	a	particular	time,	and those	that	just	need	to	be	done	as	soon	as	you	can	get	to	them,	around	your	other calendar	items	(some	perhaps	with	a	final	due	date).	Calendared	action	items	can be	either	time	specific	(e.g.,	“10:00–11:00	meet	with	Jim”)	or	day	specific	(“Call Rachel	Tuesday	to	see	if	she	got	the	proposal”). 


The	calendar	should	show	only	the	“hard	landscape”	around	which	you	do	the	rest	of	your actions. 


As	you	were	processing	your	in-tray,	you	probably	came	across	things	that you	put	right	into	your	calendar	as	they	showed	up.	You	may	have	realized	that the	next	action	on	getting	a	medical	checkup,	for	example,	was	to	call	and	make the	appointment,	and	so	(since	the	action	required	two	minutes	or	less)	you actually	did	it	when	it	occurred	to	you.	Writing	the	appointment	on	your calendar	as	you	made	it	would	then	have	been	common	sense. 


What	many	want	to	do,	however,	based	on	perhaps	old	habits	of	writing	daily to-do	lists,	is	put	actions	on	the	calendar	that	they	think	they’d	really	 
like
	to	get done	next	Monday,	say,	but	that	actually	might	not,	and	that	might	then	have	to be	moved	to	following	days.  
Resist	this	impulse. 
	You	need	to	trust	your	calendar as	sacred	territory,	reflecting	the	exact	hard	edges	of	your	day’s	commitments, which	should	be	noticeable	at	a	glance	while	you’re	on	the	run.	That’ll	be	much easier	if	the	only	things	in	there	are	those	that	you	absolutely	 
have
	to	get	done, or	know	about,	on	that	day.	When	the	calendar	is	relegated	to	its	proper	role	in organizing,	the	majority	of	the	actions	that	you	need	to	do	are	left	in	the	category of	“as	soon	as	possible,	against	all	the	other	things	I	have	to	do.” 


Organizing	As-Soon-As-Possible	Actions	by	Context


Over	many	years	I	have	discovered	that	the	best	way	to	be	reminded	of	an	“as soon	as	I	can”	action	is	by	the	particular	 
context	
 required	for	that	action—that	is, either	the	tool	or	the	location	or	the	situation	needed	to	complete	it.	For	instance, if	the	action	requires	a	computer,	it	should	go	on	an	At	Computer	list.	If	your action	demands	that	you	be	out	and	moving	around	in	the	world	(such	as stopping	by	the	bank	or	going	to	the	hardware	store),	the	Errands	list	would	be the	appropriate	place	to	track	it.	If	the	next	step	is	to	talk	about	something	face-to-face	with	your	partner,	Emily,	putting	it	into	an	“Emily”	folder	or	list	makes the	most	sense. 


How	discrete	these	categories	will	need	to	be	will	depend	on	(1)	how	many actions	you	actually	have	to	track;	and	(2)	how	often	you	change	the	contexts within	which	to	do	them. 


If	you	are	that	rare	person	who	has	only	twenty-five	next	actions,	a	single Next	Actions	list	might	suffice.	It	could	include	items	as	diverse	as	“Buy	nails,” 


“Talk	to	boss	about	staff	changes,”	and	“Draft	ideas	about	committee	meeting.” 


If,	however,	you	have	fifty	or	a	hundred	next	actions	pending,	keeping	all	of those	on	one	big	list	would	make	it	too	difficult	to	see	what	you	need	to	see; each	time	you	got	any	window	of	time	to	do	something,	you’d	have	to	do unproductive	re-sorting.	If	you	happened	to	be	on	a	short	break	at	a	conference, during	which	you	might	be	able	to	make	some	calls,	you’d	have	to	identify	the calls	among	a	big	batch	of	unrelated	items.	When	you	went	out	to	do	odds	and ends,	you’d	probably	want	to	pick	out	your	errands	and	make	another	list. 


Another	productivity	factor	that	this	kind	of	organization	supports	is leveraging	your	energy	when	you’re	in	a	certain	mode.	When	you’re	in	“phone mode,”	it	helps	to	make	a	lot	of	phone	calls—just	crank	down	your	Calls	list. 


When	your	computer	is	up	and	running	and	you’re	cruising	along	digitally,	it’s useful	to	get	as	much	done	online	as	you	can	without	having	to	shift	into	another kind	of	activity.	It	takes	more	energy	than	most	people	realize	to	unhook	out	of one	set	of	behaviors	and	get	into	another	kind	of	rhythm	and	tool	set.	And obviously,	when	a	key	person	is	sitting	in	front	of	you	in	your	office,	you’d	be wise	to	have	all	the	things	you	need	to	talk	about	with	him	or	her	immediately	at hand. 


The	Most	Common	Categories	of	Action	Reminders


You’ll	probably	find	that	at	least	a	few	of	the	following	common	list	headings for	next	actions	will	make	sense	for	you:


Calls


At	Computer


Errands


At	Office	(miscellaneous)


At	Home


Anywhere


Agendas	(for	people	and	meetings)


Read/Review


 
Calls	
 This	is	the	list	of	all	the	phone	calls	you	need	to	make;	you	can	work	off	it as	long	as	you	have	a	phone	available.	The	more	mobile	you	are,	the	more	useful you’ll	find	it	to	have	one	single	list	of	all	your	calls:	those	strange	little	windows of	time	that	you	wind	up	with	when	you’re	off-site,	out	and	about,	traveling,	on	a break,	or	waiting	for	a	plane	or	for	your	kid	to	come	out	from	school	offer	a perfect	opportunity	to	make	use	of	that	list.	Having	a	discrete	Calls	category makes	it	much	easier	to	focus	and	intuitively	pick	the	best	one	to	make	in	the moment. 


I	suggest	that	you	take	the	time	to	record	the	phone	number	alongside	each item.	There	are	many	situations	in	which	you	would	probably	make	the	call	if the	number	was	already	there	in	front	of	you	but	not	if	you	had	to	look	it	up,	and if	you’re	using	a	mobile	device	then	only	a	tap	is	required	to	engage. 


 
At	Computer	
 If	you	work	with	a	computer—particularly	if	you	move	around with	a	laptop/tablet	or	have	a	computer	at	work	and	another	at	home—it	can	be helpful	to	group	all	those	actions	that	you	need	to	do	when	it’s	on	and	running. 


This	will	allow	you	to	see	all	your	options	for	computer	work	to	do,	reminding you	of	the	e-mails	you	need	to	send,	the	documents	you	need	to	draft	or	edit,	and so	on. 


Think	carefully	about	 
where
	and	 
when
	and	 
under	what	circumstances
	you	can	do	which	actions, and	organize	your	lists	accordingly. 


Because	I	fly	a	lot,	I	maintain	an	Online	action	list,	separate	from	my	At Computer	one.	When	I’m	on	a	plane	without	a	Wi-Fi	service	I	can’t	connect	to the	Web	or	my	servers,	as	many	actions	require.	So	instead	of	having	to	rethink what	I	can	and	can’t	do	whenever	I	look	at	my	At	Computer	list,	I	can	trust	that


none	of	my	At	Computer	actions	require	that	I	be	connected,	which	frees	my mind	to	make	choices	based	on	other	criteria. 


If	you	only	do	at-computer	work	at	your	office,	or	at	your	home,	you	could incorporate	those	actions	on	those	location-specific	lists,	though	you	might	still find	it	functional	to	see	reminders	of	computer	work	grouped	together	when you’re	sitting	in	that	context.	On	the	other	hand,	if	your	work	and	activities	are primarily	mobile-centric,	and	you	could	be	taking	actions	equally	on	a	laptop, tablet,	or	smartphone,	then	parking	those	reminders	on	a	single	Digital	context list	or	folding	them	into	the	Anywhere	category	might	work	best. 


 
Errands	
 It	makes	a	lot	of	sense	to	group	together	in	one	place	reminders	of	all the	things	you	need	to	do	when	you’re	out	and	about.	When	you	know	you	need to	go	somewhere,	it’s	great	to	be	able	to	look	at	that	list	to	allow	for	the	option of	handling	numerous	things	along	the	way,	in	one	trip.	Actions	like	“Get	stock certificates	from	bank	deposit	box,”	“Pick	up	suit	at	the	tailor,”	and	“Buy flowers	for	Robyn	at	the	florist”	would	all	go	here. 


 
We	must	strive	to	reach	that	simplicity	that	lies	beyond	sophistication. 


 
—John	Gardner


This	list	could,	of	course,	be	nothing	more	elaborate	than	a	Post-it	that	you keep	in	your	planner	or	on	your	refrigerator	door,	or	in	an	Errands	category	in some	digital	task	manager. 


It’s	often	helpful	to	track	sublists	within	individual	Errands	items.	For instance,	as	soon	as	you	realize	you	need	something	from	the	hardware	store, you	might	want	to	make	“hardware	store”	the	list	item	and	then	append	a	sublist of	all	the	things	you	want	to	pick	up	there,	as	you	think	of	them.	On	the	low-tech end,	you	could	create	a	“hardware	store”	Post-it;	on	the	high-tech	side,	if	you were	using	a	digital	list,	you	could	attach	a	“note”	to	“hardware	store”	on	your list	and	input	the	details	there
.*


Simplifying	your	focus	on	actions	will	ensure	that	more	of	them	get	done. 


 
At	Office	
 If	you	work	in	an	office,	there	will	be	certain	things	that	you	can	do


only	there,	and	a	list	of	those	things	will	be	useful	to	have	in	front	of	you	then—


though	obviously,	if	you	have	a	phone	and	a	computer	in	your	office,	and	you have	“Calls”	and	“At	Computer”	as	separate	lists,	they’ll	be	in	play	as	well.	I’d use	an	“Office	Actions”	or	“At	Office”	list	for	anything	that	required	me	being physically	present	there	to	take	the	action,	such	as	purging	an	office	filing cabinet	or	printing	and	reviewing	a	large	document	with	a	staff	person. 


A	major	trend	now	is	for	organizations	to	become	more	open,	flexible,	and virtual.	“Hotel-ing”	(i.e.	not	having	a	permanent	office,	but	rather	“plugging	in” 


in	any	available	location)	is	on	the	rise.	Consequently,	At	Office	could	mean simply	an	action	that	requires	being	at	any	of	several	company	locations.	Or,	for some	people,	it’s	useful	to	have	both	an	At	Office	“A”	and	an	At	Office	“B”	list, for	those	things	that	are	still	discretely	tied	to	one	physical	location	or	another. 


 
At	Home	
 Many	actions	can	be	done	only	at	home,	and	it	makes	sense	to	keep	a list	specific	to	that	context.	I’m	sure	you’ve	got	numerous	personal	and	around-the-house	projects,	and	often	the	next	thing	to	do	on	them	is	just	to	do	them. 


“Hang	new	watercolor	print,”	“Organize	travel	accessories,”	and	“Switch	closets to	winter	clothes”	would	be	typical	items	for	this	grouping. 


If	you	have	an	office	at	home,	as	I	do,	anything	that	can	be	done	only	there goes	on	the	At	Home	list.	(If	you	work	 
only
	at	home	and	don’t	go	to	another office,	you	won’t	need	an	At	Office	list	at	all—the	At	Home	list	could	suffice.) Similar	to	people	who	work	at	various	locations,	many	people	have	multiple personal	work	environments,	such	as	vacation	homes,	boats,	and	even	the	local gourmet	coffee	shop	or	café.	“At	Starbucks”	can	be	a	fine	categorization	for	an action	list! 


 
Agenda
s*
 
 
 Invariably	you’ll	find	that	many	of	your	next	actions	need	to	either occur	in	a	real-time	interaction	with	someone	or	be	brought	up	in	a	committee, team,	or	staff	meeting.	You	have	to	talk	to	your	partner	about	an	idea	for	next year;	you	want	to	check	with	your	life	partner	about	his	schedule	for	the	spring; you	need	to	delegate	a	task	to	your	assistant	that’s	too	complicated	to	explain	in an	e-mail.	And	you	must	make	an	announcement	at	the	Monday	staff	meeting about	the	change	in	expense-report	policies. 


Standing	meetings	and	people	you	deal	with	on	an	ongoing	basis	often	need	their	own	Agenda list. 


These	next	actions	should	be	put	on	separate	Agenda	lists	for	each	of	those people	and	for	that	meeting	(assuming	you	attend	it	regularly).	Professionals who	keep	a	file	folder	to	hold	all	the	things	they	need	to	go	over	with	their	boss already	use	a	version	of	this	method.	If	you’re	conscientious	about	determining all	your	next	actions,	though,	you	may	find	that	you’ll	need	somewhere	between three	and	fifteen	of	these	kinds	of	lists.	I	recommend	that	separate	lists	be	kept for	bosses,	partners,	assistants,	and	children.	You	should	also	keep	the	same	kind of	list	for	your	attorney,	financial	adviser,	accountant,	and/or	computer consultant,	as	well	as	for	anyone	else	with	whom	you	might	have	more	than	one thing	to	go	over	the	next	time	you	talk	on	the	phone	or	in	person. 


The	broader	your	responsibilities,	and	the	more	senior	your	organizational	roles,	the	more	you will	get	things	done	through	your	communications	and	transactions	with	other	people. 


If	you	participate	in	standing	meetings—staff	meetings,	project	meetings, board	meetings,	committee	meetings,	parent/teacher	meetings,	whatever—they, too,	deserve	their	own	lists,	in	which	you	collect	things	that	will	need	to	be addressed	on	those	occasions. 


Often	you’ll	want	to	keep	a	running	list	of	things	to	go	over	with	someone you’ll	be	interacting	with	only	for	a	limited	period	of	time.	For	instance,	if	you have	a	contractor	doing	a	significant	piece	of	work	on	your	house	or	property, you	can	create	a	list	for	him	for	the	duration	of	the	project.	As	you’re	walking around	the	site	after	he’s	left	for	the	day,	you	may	notice	several	things	you	need to	talk	with	him	about,	and	you’ll	want	that	list	to	be	easy	to	capture	and	to access	as	needed. 


Given	the	usefulness	of	this	type	of	list,	your	system	should	allow	you	to	add Agendas	ad	hoc,	as	needed	quickly	and	simply.	For	example,	inserting	a	page	or a	list	for	a	person	or	a	meeting	within	an	Agenda	section	of	a	loose-leaf notebook	planner	takes	only	seconds,	as	does	adding	a	dedicated	“note”	within an	Agenda	category	in	your	digital	tools. 


 
Read/Review	
 You	will	no	doubt	have	discovered	in	your	in-tray	a	number	of things	for	which	your	next	action	is	to	read.	I	hope	you	have	held	to	the	two-minute	rule	and	dispatched	many	of	those	quick-skim	items	already—tossing, filing,	or	routing	them	forward	as	appropriate. 


 
Those	who	make	the	worst	use	of	their	time	are	the	first	to	complain	of	its	shortness. 


 
—Jean	de	La	Bruyère


To-read	printed	items	that	you	know	will	demand	more	than	two	minutes	of your	time	are	usually	best	managed	in	a	separate	physical	stack	tray	labeled


“Read/Review.”	This	is	still	a	“list”	by	my	definition,	but	one	that’s	more efficiently	dealt	with	by	grouping	the	documents	and	magazines	themselves	in	a tray	and/or	portable	folder. 


For	many	people,	the	Read/Review	stack	can	get	quite	large.	That’s	why	it’s critical	that	the	pile	be	reserved	only	for	those	longer-than-two-minute	things that	you	actually	 
want	
 to	read	when	you	have	time.	That	can	be	daunting	enough in	itself,	but	things	get	seriously	out	of	control	and	psychologically	numbing when	the	edges	of	this	category	are	not	clearly	defined.	A	pristine	delineation will	at	least	make	you	conscious	of	the	inventory,	and	if	you’re	like	most	people, having	some	type	of	self-regulating	mechanism	will	help	you	become	more aware	of	what	you	want	to	keep	and	what	you	should	just	get	rid	of. 


Some	professionals	(e.g.,	attorneys)	still	work	with	significant	printed materials,	and	although	most	of	their	documents	may	be	generated	and maintained	in	digital	form,	working	with	the	document	in	physical	form	still remains	the	optimal	way	to	deal	with	it.	In	those	cases	it	often	makes	sense,	in addition	to	a	Read/Review	box	or	tray,	to	have	a	Review/Respond	category	for the	more	rigorous	reading	that	requires	a	different	kind	of	focus. 


It’s	practical	to	have	organized	reading	material	at	hand	when	you’re	on	your way	to	a	meeting	that	may	be	starting	late,	a	seminar	that	may	have	a	window	of time	when	nothing	is	going	on,	a	dentist	appointment	that	may	keep	you	waiting, or,	of	course,	if	you’re	going	to	have	some	time	on	a	train	or	plane.	Those	are	all great	opportunities	to	browse	and	work	through	that	kind	of	reading.	People	who don’t	have	their	Read/Review	material	organized	can	waste	a	lot	of	time,	since life	is	full	of	weird	little	windows	when	it	could	be	used. 


Given	the	amount	of	digital	input	we’re	getting	that	includes	data	to	read	and view,	much	of	which	is	not	really	critical	to	our	work	or	life	but	is	potentially interesting	or	fun,	it	can	be	useful	to	create	an	organizational	bucket	within	that world	for	such	things.	A	Review/Watch	file	in	your	e-mail	folder	system	or	a Surf	Web	action	list	could	be	a	good	place	to	hold	e-mails	with	links	to recommended	videos,	blogs,	or	online	articles. 


Organizing	“Waiting	For” 


Manage	the	commitments	of	others	before	their	avoidance	creates	a	crisis. 


Like	reminders	of	the	actions	you	need	to	do,	reminders	of	all	the	things	that you’re	waiting	to	get	back	from	or	get	done	by	others	have	to	be	sorted	and grouped.	You	won’t	necessarily	be	tracking	discrete	action	steps	here,	but	more often	final	deliverables	or	projects	that	others	are	responsible	for,	such	as	the tickets	you’ve	ordered	from	the	theater,	the	scanner	that’s	coming	for	the	office, the	OK	on	the	proposal	from	your	client,	and	so	on.	When	the	next	action	on something	is	up	to	someone	else,	you	don’t	need	an	 
action
	reminder,	just	a trigger	about	what	you’re	waiting	for	and	from	whom.	Your	role	is	to	review that	list	as	often	as	you	need	to	and	assess	whether	you	ought	to	be	taking	an action,	such	as	checking	the	status	or	lighting	a	fire	in	some	way	under	the project. 


For	many	people,	especially	those	in	managerial	or	supervisory	positions, getting	this	inventory	of	unfulfilled	commitments	that	we	care	about	from	others captured,	current,	complete,	and	reviewed	creates	tremendous	relief	and improved	focus	going	forward. 


You’ll	probably	find	that	it	works	best	to	keep	this	Waiting	For	list	close	at hand,	in	the	same	system	as	your	Next	Actions	reminder	lists.	The	responsibility for	the	next	step	may	bounce	back	and	forth	many	times	before	a	project	is finished.	For	example,	you	may	need	to	make	a	call	to	a	vendor	to	request	a proposal	(which	then	goes	to	your	Waiting	For	list).	When	the	proposal	comes in,	you	have	to	review	it	(it	lands	in	your	Read/Review	tray	or	on	your	At Computer	list).	Once	you’ve	gone	over	it,	you	send	it	to	your	boss	for	her approval	(now	it’s	back	on	your	Waiting	For	list).	And	so	on. 
*


It’s	also	very	useful	to	have	your	Waiting	For	list	available	when	you	are meeting	with	or	talking	to	anyone	who	might	be	responsible	for	any	of	those deliverables.	It	is	much	more	elegant	to	broach	a	conversation	early	on,	such	as


“Oh	yeah,	how’s	it	going	with	the	Gonzalez	proposal?”	than	to	wait	until	it’s overdue	and	the	situation	is	in	a	stress	mode. 


It’s	important	for	this	category	in	particular	to	include	the	date	that	each	item is	requested	for	each	entry,	as	well	as	any	agreed-upon	due	date.	Follow-up	is much	more	meaningful	when	you	can	say,	“But	I	placed	the	order	March twentieth”	or	“You’ve	had	the	proposal	now	for	three	weeks.”	In	my	experience, 


just	this	one	tactical	detail	is	worth	its	weight	in	gold. 


You’ll	get	a	great	feeling	when	you	know	that	your	Waiting	For	list	is	the complete	inventory	of	everything	you	care	about	that	other	people	are	supposed to	be	doing. 


Using	the	Original	Item	as	Its	Own	Action	Reminder


Keep	actionable	e-mails	and	paper	separated	from	all	the	rest. 


The	most	efficient	way	to	track	your	action	reminders	is	to	add	them	to	lists	or folders	as	they	occur	to	you.	The	originating	trigger	won’t	be	needed	after	you have	processed	it.	You	might	take	notes	in	the	meeting	with	your	boss,	but	you can	toss	those	after	you’ve	pulled	out	any	projects	and	actions	associated	with them.	While	some	people	try	to	archive	texts	or	voice	mails	that	they	still	need	to do	something	about,	that’s	not	the	most	effective	way	to	manage	the	reminders embedded	in	them. 


There	are	some	exceptions	to	this	rule,	however.	Certain	kinds	of	input	will most	efficiently	serve	as	their	own	reminders	of	required	actions,	rather	than your	having	to	write	something	about	them	on	a	list.	This	is	particularly	true	for some	paper-based	materials	and	some	e-mail. 


Managing	Paper-Based	Workflow


Some	things	are	their	own	best	reminders	of	work	to	be	done.	The	category	of Read/Review	articles,	publications,	and	documents	is	a	good	example.	It	would obviously	be	overkill	to	write	“Review	 
Vogue
	magazine”	on	some	action	list when	you	could	just	as	easily	toss	the	magazine	itself	into	your	Read/Review tray	to	act	as	the	trigger. 


Another	example:	if	you	are	still	doing	paper-based	bill	paying,	you’ll probably	find	it	easier	to	deal	with	the	bills	by	paying	them	all	at	one	time,	so you	keep	them	in	a	folder	or	stack	tray	labeled	“Bills	to	Pay”	(or,	more generically,	“Financial	to	Process”).	Similarly,	receipts	for	expense	reporting should	be	either	dealt	with	at	the	time	they’re	generated	or	kept	in	their	own Receipts	to	Process	envelope	or	folder. 
*


The	specific	nature	of	your	work,	your	input,	and	your	workstation	may make	it	more	efficient	to	organize	other	categories	using	only	the	original document	itself.	A	customer-service	professional,	for	instance,	may	deal	with numerous	requests	that	show	up	in	some	standard	form,	and	in	that	case maintaining	a	tray	or	file	(paper	or	digital)	containing	only	those	actionable items	is	the	best	way	to	manage	them.	An	attorney	or	accountant	may	deal	with documents	they	need	to	spend	time	reviewing	to	determine	actions,	which	could be	stacked	in	a	tray	on	the	desk	with	items	of	that	specific	nature. 


The	primary	reason	for	organizing	is	to	reduce	cognitive	load—i.e.	to	eliminate	the	need	to constantly	be	thinking,	“What	do	I	need	to	do	about	this?” 


Whether	it	makes	more	sense	to	write	reminders	on	a	list	or	to	use	the originating	documents	in	a	tray	or	folder	or	digital	directory	will	depend	to	a great	extent	on	logistics.	Could	you	use	those	reminders	somewhere	other	than	at your	desk?	If	so,	the	portability	of	the	material	should	be	considered.	If	you couldn’t	possibly	do	that	work	anywhere	but	at	your	desk,	then	managing reminders	of	it	solely	at	your	workstation	is	the	better	choice. 


Whichever	option	you	select,	the	reminders	should	be	in	visibly	discrete categories	based	upon	the	next	action	required.	If	the	next	action	on	a	service order	is	to	make	a	call,	it	should	be	in	a	Calls	group;	if	the	action	step	is	to review	information	and	input	it	into	the	computer,	it	should	be	labeled	“At Computer.”	Most	undermining	of	the	effectiveness	of	many	workflow	systems	I see	is	the	fact	that	all	the	documents	of	one	type	(e.g.	service	requests)	are	kept in	a	single	tray	or	file,	even	though	different	kinds	of	actions	may	be	required	on each	one.	One	request	needs	a	phone	call,	another	needs	data	reviewed,	and	still another	is	waiting	for	someone	to	get	back	with	some	information—but	they’re all	sorted	together.	This	arrangement	can	cause	a	person’s	mind	to	go	numb	to the	stack	because	of	all	the	decisions	that	are	still	pending	about	the	next-action level	of	doing. 


My	personal	system	is	highly	portable,	with	almost	everything	kept	on	lists, but	I	still	maintain	a	Read/Review	stack	tray	in	my	office	and	the	traveling version	as	a	plastic	folder	with	the	same	title.	Though	I	store	and	read	some magazines	digitally,	it’s	still	both	logistically	functional	and	aesthetically pleasing	to	me	to	have	the	physical	version	at	hand. 


Managing	E-mail-Based	Workflow


Like	some	paper-based	materials,	e-mails	that	need	action	are	sometimes	best	as their	own	reminders—in	this	case	within	the	e-mail	system	itself.	This	is especially	true	if	you	get	a	lot	of	e-mail	and	spend	a	lot	of	your	work	time	with your	e-mail	software	active	at	hand.	E-mails	that	you	need	to	act	on	may	then	be stored	within	the	system	instead	of	having	their	embedded	actions	written	out	or distributed	on	another	list. 


Many	people	have	found	it	helpful	to	set	up	two	or	three	unique	folders	on their	e-mail	navigator	bars.	True,	most	folders	in	e-mail	should	be	used	for reference	or	archived	materials,	but	it’s	also	possible	to	set	up	a	workable	system that	will	keep	your	actionable	messages	discretely	organized	outside	the	“in” 


area	itself	(which	is	where	most	people	tend	to	keep	them)
.*


If	you	choose	this	route,	I	recommend	that	you	create	one	folder	for	any longer-than-two-minute	e-mails	that	you	need	to	act	on	(again,	you	should	be able	to	dispatch	many	messages	right	off	the	bat	by	following	the	two-minute rule).	The	folder	name	should	begin	with	a	prefix	letter	or	symbol	so	that	(1)	it looks	different	from	your	reference	folders	and	(2)	it	sits	at	the	top	of	your folders	in	the	navigator	bar.	Use	something	like	the	@	sign	or	the	hyphen, whichever	will	sort	into	your	system	at	the	top.	Your	resulting	@ACTION	folder will	hold	those	e-mails	that	you	need	to	do	something	about. 


Next	you	can	create	a	folder	titled	“@WAITING	FOR,”	which	will	show	up in	the	same	place	as	the	@ACTION	folder.	Then,	as	you	receive	e-mails	that indicate	that	someone	is	going	to	do	something	you	care	about	tracking,	you	can drag	them	over	into	the	@WAITING	FOR	file.	It	can	also	hold	reminders	for anything	that	you	delegate	via	e-mail:	when	you	forward	something,	or	use	e-mail	to	make	a	request	or	delegate	an	action,	just	save	a	cc:	or	bcc:	copy	into your	@WAITING	FOR	file. 
*


It	takes	much	less	energy	to	maintain	e-mail	backlog	at	zero	than	at	a	thousand. 


Some	applications	allow	you	to	file	a	copy	of	an	e-mail	into	one	of	your folders	as	you	send	it	(with	a	“Send	and	File”	button).	Others	will simultaneously	save	only	into	your	universal	“Sent	Mail”	folder.	In	the	latter case,	what	seems	to	work	best	for	many	is	to	copy	(“cc”	or	“bcc”)	themselves when	they	delegate	via	e-mail,	and	then	to	put	that	copy	into	their	“@WAITING


FOR”	folder. 


 
Getting	E-mail	“In”	to	Empty	
 The	method	detailed	above	will	enable	you	to actually	get	everything	out	of	your	e-mail	in-tray,	which	will	be	a	huge	boon	to your	clarity	about,	and	control	of,	your	day-to-day	work.	You’ll	reclaim	“in”	as


“in,”	so	anything	residing	there	will	be	like	a	new	message	in	your	voice	mail	or an	unread	text	on	your	mobile	device—clues	that	you	need	to	process something.	Most	people	use	their	e-mail	“in”	for	staging	still-undecided actionable	things,	reference,	and	even	trash,	a	practice	that	rapidly	numbs	the mind:	they	know	they’ve	got	to	reassess	everything	every	time	they	glance	at	the screen. 


Again,	getting	“in”	empty	doesn’t	mean	you’ve	handled	everything.	It	means that	you’ve	 
deleted
	what	you	could,  
filed	
 what	you	wanted	to	keep	but	don’t need	to	act	on,  
done
	the	less-than-two-minute	responses,	and	moved	into	your reminder	folders	all	the	things	you’re	waiting	for	and	all	your	actionable	e-mails. 


 
Now
	you	can	open	the	@ACTION	file	and	review	the	e-mails	that	you’ve determined	you	need	to	spend	time	on.	Isn’t	that	process	easier	to	relate	to	than fumbling	through	multiple	screens,	fearing	all	the	while	that	you	may	miss something	that’ll	blow	up	on	you? 


A	Caution	About	Dispersing	Reminders	of	Your	Actions









Paper-based	data	is	sometimes	easier	to	trust	for	utility	than	digital	versions. 


There’s	an	obvious	danger	in	putting	reminders	of	things	you	need	to	do somewhere	out	of	sight.	The	function	of	an	organization	system	is	primarily	to supply	the	reminders	you	need	to	see	when	you	need	to	see	them,	so	you	can trust	your	choices	about	what	you’re	doing	(and	what	you’re	not	doing).	Before you	leave	your	office	for	the	day,	or	before	you	decide	to	spend	a	big	part	of your	day	doing	something	previously	unplanned,	those	actionable	e-mails	that you	still	have	pending	must	be	reviewed	individually,	just	like	your	Calls	and	At Computer	lists.	In	essence,	@ACTION	is	an	extension	of	your	At	Computer	list and	should	be	handled	in	exactly	the	same	fashion.	Your	paper-based	Pending workflow	must	likewise	be	assessed	like	a	list	if	the	paper	materials	are	being used	as	your	only	reminders. 


Distributing	action	triggers	in	a	folder,	on	lists,	and/or	in	an	e-mail	system	is perfectly	OK,  
as	long	as	you	review	all	of	the	categories	to	which	you’ve
 
entrusted	your	triggers	equally,	as	required
.	You	don’t	want	things	lurking	in the	recesses	of	your	systems	and	not	being	used	for	their	intended	purpose: reminding	you.	The	digital	world	can	be	dangerous	in	this	regard,	because	as soon	as	data	is	offscreen,	it	can	tend	to	disappear	as	a	viable	prompt.	This	has caused	many	computer-savvy	people	to	revert	to	a	paper	planner—its	physicality and	visual	obviousness	can	create	much	more	trust	that	their	reminders	will actually	remind	them! 


In	order	to	hang	out	with	friends	or	take	a	long,	aimless	walk	and	truly	have nothing	on	your	mind,	you’ve	got	to	know	where	all	your	actionable	items	are located,	what	they	are,	and	that	they	will	wait.	And	you	need	to	be	able	to	do	that in	a	few	seconds,	not	days. 


Organizing	Project	Reminders


Creating	and	maintaining	one	list	of	all	your	projects	(that	is,	again,	every commitment	or	desired	outcome	that	may	require	more	than	one	action	step	to complete)	can	be	a	profound	experience!	You	probably	have	more	of	them	than you	think.	If	you	haven’t	done	so	already,	I	recommend	that	initially	you	make	a Projects	list	in	a	very	simple	format,	similar	to	the	ones	you’ve	used	for	your lists	of	actions;	it	can	be	a	category	in	a	digital	organizer,	a	page	in	a	loose-leaf planner,	or	even	a	single	file	folder	labeled	“Projects,”	with	either	a	master	list	or separate	sheets	of	paper	for	each	one. 


The	Projects	List(s)


A	complete	and	current	Projects	list	is	the	major	operational	tool	for	moving	from	tree-hugging to	forest	management. 


The	Projects	list	is	not	meant	to	hold	plans	or	details	about	your	projects themselves,	nor	should	you	try	to	keep	it	arranged	by	priority	or	size	or	urgency


—it’s	just	a	comprehensive	index	of	your	open	loops.	You	actually	won’t	be


working	off	of	the	Projects	list	during	your	moment-to-moment	activities;	for	the most	part,	your	calendar,	action	lists,	and	any	unexpected	tasks	that	come	up	will constitute	your	tactical	and	immediate	focus.	Remember,	you	can’t	 
do
	a	project; you	can	only	do	the	action	steps	it	requires.	Being	aware	of	the	horizon represented	by	your	projects,	however,	is	critical	for	extending	your	comfort with	your	control	and	focus	into	longer	reaches	of	time. 


The	real	value	of	the	Projects	list	lies	in	the	complete	review	it	can	provide (at	least	once	a	week),	ensuring	that	you	have	action	steps	defined	for	all	of	your projects	and	that	nothing	is	slipping	through	the	cracks.	A	quick	glance	at	this list	from	time	to	time	will	enhance	your	underlying	sense	of	control.	You’ll	also know	that	you	have	an	inventory	available	to	you	(and	to	others)	whenever	it seems	advisable	to	evaluate	workload(s). 


The	Value	of	a	Complete	Projects	List


The	very	broad	and	simple	definition	of	a	project	that	I	have	given	(more	than one	action	needed	to	achieve	a	desired	result)	provides	an	important	net	to capture	the	more	subtle	things	that	pull	or	push	on	your	consciousness.	If	you work	in	an	industry	that	is	formally	project	focused	(manufacturing,	software, consulting,	etc.),	it	may	be	challenging	to	realize	that	“look	into	getting	a	dog	for our	kids”	and	“find	a	good	tailor”	are	projects!	But	whether	you	call	them


“projects”	or	something	else,	they	still	demand	a	certain	kind	of	attention	to relieve	their	pressure	on	your	internal	space. 


Getting	the	inventory	of	all	of	those	things	complete,	current,	and	clear	for yourself,	and	acquiring	the	habit	of	maintaining	it	that	way,	could	be	one	of	the most	valuable	things	you	do	to	enable	stress-free	productivity	for	yourself	from now	on.	Here	are	some	of	the	reasons	why:


Critical	for	control	and	focus


Alleviates	subtle	tensions


Core	of	the	Weekly	Review


Facilitates	relationship	management


 
Critical	for	Control	and	Focus	
 It	is	impossible	to	be	truly	relaxed	and	in	your productive	state	when	things	you’ve	told	yourself	you	need	to	handle	continue	to pull	at	your	mind—whether	they	be	little	or	big.	It	seems	that	“I’ve	got	to	get	my driver’s	license	renewed”	can	take	up	as	much	space	in	your	head	as	“I	need	to


formulate	the	agenda	for	next	year’s	conference”	when	an	external	list	of	such things	is	not	complete	and	reviewed	regularly. 


Projects	seldom	show	up	in	nice,	neat	packages.	Small	things	often	slip	unexpectedly	into	bigger things. 


 
Alleviates	Subtle	Tensions	
 The	smaller	or	more	subtle	things	we	tell	ourselves we	need	to	deal	with	create	some	of	the	more	challenging	stresses	to	handle, simply	because	they	are	not	so	much	“in	your	face.”	Projects	often	don’t	show up	in	nice,	neat	packages.	They	start	as	what	seems	a	simple	situation, communication,	or	activity,	but	they	slowly	morph	into	something	bigger	than you	expected.	You	thought	you	handled	getting	your	daughter	into	preschool, but	now	there’s	a	problem	with	the	registration	forms	or	a	change	in	the logistical	details.	You	thought	the	invoice	you	sent	was	complete	and	accurate, but	now	the	client	says	he	didn’t	agree	to	something	you	billed	him	for.	Getting these	kinds	of	situations	identified	and	into	your	system	with	desired	outcomes for	appropriate	engagement	creates	a	wealth	of	fresh	energy	with	unexpected positive	results. 


 
Core	of	the	Weekly	Review	
 As	I	have	indicated	in	other	places,	the	Weekly Review	is	the	critical	success	factor	for	marrying	your	larger	commitments	to your	day-to-day	activities.	And	a	complete	Projects	list	remains	the	linchpin	for that	orientation.	Ensuring	weekly	that	you’re	OK	about	what	you’re	doing	(or not	doing)	with	a	dog	for	your	kids,	along	with	what	you’re	doing	(or	not	doing) about	next	year’s	conference,	is	an	essential	practice.	But	that	Projects	list	must already	be	there,	in	at	least	a	somewhat	recent	form,	before	you	have	the capability	to	think	about	things	from	that	perspective. 


 
Facilitates	Relationship	Management	
 Whether	you	are	in	conversation	with	your boss,	your	staff,	your	partner,	or	your	family,	having	a	sense	of	control	and overview	of	all	of	your	commitments	that	may	have	relevance	in	your relationships	with	them	is	extremely	valuable.	Invariably	there	are	challenges with	allocating	limited	resources—your	time,	your	money,	your	attention.	And when	others	are	involved	with	you	in	ways	that	pull	on	those	resources,	being able	to	negotiate	(and	frequently	 
re
 negotiate)	those	explicit	and	implicit agreements	is	the	only	way	to	effectively	relieve	those	inherent	pressures.	Once


executives	and	spouses	and	staff	people	get	the	picture	of	the	commitments	of their	work	and	life,	it	triggers	extremely	important	and	constructive conversations	with	those	involved.	But	it	doesn’t	happen	without	that	complete list. 


Where	to	Look	for	Projects	Still	to	Uncover


There	are	three	primary	areas	in	which	you	are	likely	to	have	“hidden”	projects: Current	activities


Higher-horizon	interests	and	commitments


Current	problems,	issues,	and	opportunities


 
Current	Activities	
 Often	there	are	projects	that	need	to	be	captured	from	a	simple inventory	of	your	calendar,	your	action	lists,	and	your	workspaces. 


What	meetings	are	on	your	schedule—past	or	upcoming—because	of	some outcome	you’re	committed	to	achieving	that	the	meeting	itself	does	not	complete or	resolve?	You	may	notice	that	a	conference	call	you’ve	been	scheduled	for	is about	a	client	request	for	a	new	custom	program	he	or	she	might	want.	Voila!	A project—“Look	into	possible	custom	program	for	Client	XYZ.”	You	may	have an	evening	orientation	event	calendared	for	parents	at	your	son’s	school	that reminds	you	that	you	have	an	issue	to	resolve	about	his	schedule	of	classes. 


Personal	or	business	trips	coming	up,	conferences	on	your	calendar,	etc.—all should	be	assessed	for	projects	that	deserve	acknowledging. 


There	are	also	very	likely	still	unrecognized	projects	connected	to	the	next actions	on	your	lists.	Many	times	people	we	work	with	have	“Call	Mario	re:	the fund-raising	event”	on	their	Calls	list,	but	have	not	yet	identified	“Finalize	the fund-raiser”	as	something	that	should	be	on	their	Projects	list. 


And—though	it	should	be	obvious	but	at	times	isn’t—there	are	proposals	or contracts	to	review	in	your	briefcase,	forms	to	fill	out	for	the	bank	on	your	desk at	home,	or	a	broken	watch	in	your	purse	that	are	actually	project	artifacts. 


Double-check	that	you	have	them	all	associated	with	the	further	and	final outcomes	instead	of	remaining	workflow	orphans. 


 
Higher-Horizon	Interests	and	Commitments	
 There	is	a	good	chance	that	you might	still	have	subtle	attention	on	some	of	your	commitments	and	interests from	a	longer	and	higher	view	of	your	responsibilities,	goals,	visions,	and	core


values. 


A	review	of	the	accountabilities	you’re	invested	in	professionally—the	things you	need	to	be	doing	well	in	your	roles	at	work—and	the	areas	of	your	life	you need	to	keep	up	to	certain	standards	will	likely	trigger	some	reminders	of	things that	may	have	been	taking	some	of	your	attention,	for	which	defining	a	project about	them	will	be	valuable. 


If	you	have	professional	goals,	company	objectives,	and	strategic	plans,	have you	identified	all	the	projects	that	they	should	engender	for	you,	so	that	you	can move	on	them	appropriately?	I	have	seldom	had	an	executive	pull	out	and review	any	long-range	planning	document	without	her	realizing	there	is	at	least one	project	she	needs	to	clarify	for	herself	in	regard	to	it.	Are	there	things coming	toward	you	further	out	in	the	future	of	your	personal	life	that	have started	to	pull	on	your	attention	to	do	something	about	them—kids	or	parents growing	older,	your	retirement,	life	partner’s	aspirations,	fun	and	creative	things you’d	love	to	start	exploring?	This	kind	of	reflection	often	produces	at	least some	“look	into”	kinds	of	projects	that,	once	identified,	will	produce	a	greater sense	of	being	on	top	of	your	bigger	world. 


 
Current	Problems,	Issues,	and	Opportunities	
 A	very	rich	place	from	which	to gather	items	for	your	inventory	is	the	broad	area	of	often-amorphous	things	that can	disturb	your	focus	if	not	recognized	and	dealt	with	by	shaping	them	into	real projects	with	action	steps.	These	fall	into	three	categories:


Problems


Process	improvements


Creative	and	capacity-building	opportunities


When	is	a	problem	a	project?	Always.	When	you	assess	something	as	a problem	instead	of	as	something	to	simply	be	accepted	as	the	way	things	are, you	are	assuming	there	is	a	potential	resolution.	Whether	there	is	or	not	might still	need	to	be	determined.	But	at	the	very	least	you	have	some	research	to	do	to find	out.	“Look	into	improving	Frederick’s	relationship	with	his	school,” 


“Resolve	situation	with	landlord	and	building	maintenance,”	and	“Get	closure	on compensation	dispute	with	business	partner”	are	the	kinds	of	very	real	projects that	you	might	resist	defining	as	such.	When	you	actually	do	put	words	to	it,	put it	on	your	list	and	create	a	next	action	for	it;	you	will	surprise	yourself	with	a new	level	of	elegance	in	the	stress-free	productivity	game. 


Invariably	there	are	also	projects	lurking	amid	your	administrative, maintenance,	and	workflow	processes—in	both	the	professional	and	personal arenas.	What	do	you	find	yourself	complaining	about	regarding	your	systems	or simply	how	things	are	getting	done	(or	not)?	Is	there	anything	frustrating	about your	procedures	for	filing,	storage,	communication,	hiring,	tracking,	or	record keeping?	Does	anything	need	improving	in	terms	of	your	personal	or	business expense	reporting,	banking	or	investing	processes,	or	how	you	keep	in	touch with	friends	and	family?	These	are	also	the	kinds	of	projects	that	usually	become projects	slyly—it’s	tricky	to	notice	when	they	cross	the	line	between	mildly irritating	and	a	real	bother	(or	inspiration)	that	deserves	to	get	done. 


Finally,	there	might	very	well	be	things	you’ve	been	telling	yourself	you’d like	to	learn	or	experience	to	expand	your	own	development	or	creative expression.	Would	you	like	to	learn	Italian	cooking	or	how	to	draw?	Have	you been	telling	yourself	it	would	be	great	to	take	an	online	course	in	digital photography	or	social	media	marketing?	It’s	very	possible	that	many	of	these kinds	of	“might	like	to”	projects	would	live	just	fine	on	your	Someday/Maybe list.	But	as	you	gain	greater	familiarity	with	the	effectiveness	of	GTD,	you	will want	to	take	advantage	of	the	methodology	to	more	readily	incorporate	new, interesting,	and	useful	experiences	into	your	life	by	defining	desired	outcomes about	them	on	the	Projects	list. 


One	List,	or	Subdivided? 


Most	people	find	that	one	list	is	the	best	way	to	go	because	it	serves	as	a	master inventory	rather	than	as	a	daily	prioritizing	guideline.	The	organizing	system merely	provides	placeholders	for	all	your	open	loops	and	options	so	your	mind can	more	easily	make	the	necessary	intuitive,	moment-to-moment	strategic decisions. 


Frankly,	it	doesn’t	matter	how	many	different	lists	of	projects	you	have,	so long	as	you	look	at	the	contents	of	 
all
	of	them	as	often	as	you	need	to.	For	the most	part	you’ll	do	that	in	one	fell	swoop	during	your	Weekly	Review. 


Some	Common	Ways	to	Subsort	Projects


There	are	some	situations	in	which	it	makes	good	sense	(and	eases	some anxieties!)	to	subsort	a	Projects	list.	Let’s	look	at	some	usual	options. 


 
Personal/Professional	
 Many	people	feel	more	comfortable	seeing	their	lists divided	up	between	personal	and	professional	projects.	If	you’re	among	them,	be advised	that	your	Personal	list	will	need	to	be	reviewed	as	judiciously	as	your Professional	one,	and	not	just	saved	for	weekends.	Many	actions	on	personal things	will	need	to	be	handled	on	weekdays,	exactly	like	everything	else.	And often	some	of	the	greatest	pressures	on	professionals	stem	from	the	personal aspects	of	their	lives	that	they	are	letting	slip. 


 
Delegated	Projects	
 If	you’re	a	senior	manager	or	executive,	you	probably	have several	projects	that	you	are	directly	responsible	for	but	have	handed	off	to people	who	report	to	you.	While	you	could,	of	course,	put	them	on	your	Waiting For	list,	it	might	make	better	sense	to	create	a	“Projects—Delegated”	list	to	track them.	Your	task	will	be	simply	to	review	the	list	regularly	enough	to	ensure	that everything	on	it	is	moving	along	appropriately. 


 
Specific	Types	of	Projects


The	right	amount	of	complexity	is	whatever	creates	optimal	simplicity. 


Some	people	have	as	part	of	their	work	and	lifestyle	several	different	projects	of the	same	type,	which	in	some	instances	it	may	be	valuable	to	group	together	as	a sub-list	of	Projects.	For	example,	a	corporate	trainer	or	a	keynote	speaker	might maintain	a	separate	category	of	“Projects—Presentations,”	with	a	chronological listing	of	all	the	upcoming	events	of	that	nature.	These	would	be	“projects”	like the	rest,	in	that	they	need	to	be	reviewed	for	actions	until	they	are	completed;	but it	might	be	helpful	to	see	them	all	organized	on	one	list,	in	the	order	they	are coming	up	on	the	calendar,	apart	from	the	other	projects. 


If	you	are	a	real	estate	agent,	sell	consulting	services,	or	develop	proposals for	a	relatively	small	number	of	prospective	clients	in	any	profession,	you	will likely	find	it	useful	to	see	all	of	your	outstanding	“sales	relationships	in progress”	in	one	view.	This	could	be	a	separate	list	in	a	planner	or	digital application,	but	to	be	optimally	functional	it	would	need	to	be	complete	and	each item	regularly	reviewed	for	current	actions. 


Some	people	like	to	sort	their	projects	by	major	areas	of	focus—parents tracking	those	about	their	children,	an	entrepreneur	dividing	projects	by	the various	roles	he’s	fulfilling	(Finance,	Sales,	Operations),	and	the	like. 


Again,	how	you	decide	to	group	your	projects	is	not	nearly	as	critical	as ensuring	that	your	inventory	is	complete,	current,	and	assessed	sufficiently	to	get it	off	your	mind.	No	matter	how	you	organize	it	now,	you	will	very	likely change	your	structure	as	you	get	more	experience	using	your	system	and	as	the nature	of	your	focus	shifts	in	work	and	life. 


What	About	Subprojects? 


Some	of	your	projects	will	likely	have	major	subprojects,	each	of	which	could	in theory	be	seen	as	a	whole	project.	If	you’re	moving	into	a	new	residence,	for instance,	and	are	upgrading	or	changing	much	of	what’s	there,	you	may	have	a list	of	actionable	items	like	“Finalize	the	patio,”	“Upgrade	the	kitchen,”	“Set	up home	office	space,”	and	so	on,	all	of	which	could	in	themselves	be	considered separate	projects.	Do	you	make	all	of	this	one	entry	on	your	Projects	list—say, 


“Finish	new	home	upgrades”—or	do	you	write	up	each	of	the	subprojects	as	an individual	line	item? 


Actually,	it	won’t	matter,	as	long	as	you	review	all	the	components	of	the project	as	frequently	as	you	need	to	in	order	to	stay	productive.	No	external	tool or	organizing	format	is	going	to	be	perfect	for	sorting	both	horizontally	across and	vertically	down	through	all	your	projects;	you’ll	still	have	to	be	aware	of	the whole	in	some	cohesive	way	(such	as	via	your	Weekly	Review).	If	you	make	the large	project	your	one	listing	on	your	Projects	list,	you’ll	want	to	keep	a	list	of the	subprojects	and/or	the	project	plan	itself	as	“project	support	material”	to	be reviewed	when	you	come	to	that	major	item.	I	would	recommend	doing	it	this way	if	big	pieces	of	the	project	are	dependent	on	other	pieces	getting	done	first. 


In	that	scenario	you	might	have	subprojects	with	no	next	actions	attached	to them	because	they	are	in	a	sense	waiting	for	other	things	to	happen	before	they can	move	forward.	For	instance,	you	might	not	be	able	to	start	on	“Upgrade	the kitchen”	until	you	have	finished	“Assess	and	upgrade	home	electrical	system.” 


Or,	you	can	only	afford	one	of	your	major	home	projects	at	a	time,	so	keeping them	lined	up	in	order	of	your	priorities	would	make	sense.	However,	you	might be	able	to	proceed	on	“Finalize	the	patio”	independent	of	the	other	subprojects. 


You	would	therefore	want	a	next	action	to	be	continually	current	on	any	portion of	this	larger	project	that	you	 
could
	make	progress	on	independently. 


Don’t	be	too	concerned	about	which	way	is	best.	If	you’re	not	sure,	I’d	vote for	putting	your	big	projects	on	the	Projects	list	and	holding	the	sub-pieces	in your	project	support	material,	making	sure	to	include	them	in	your	Weekly


Review.	That	often	makes	it	easier	to	see	the	larger	field	of	what’s	going	on	in your	life	from	a	higher	perspective,	at	a	glance.	But	if	that	arrangement	doesn’t feel	quite	right,	try	including	the	active	and	independent	subprojects	as	separate entries	on	your	master	list. 


How	you	list	projects	and	subprojects	is	up	to	you;	just	be	sure	you	know	where	to	find	all	the moving	parts	and	review	them	as	frequently	as	needed	to	keep	them	off	your	mind. 


There’s	no	perfect	system	for	tracking	all	your	projects	and	subprojects	the same	way.	You	just	need	to	know	you	 
have
	projects	and,	if	they	have	associated components,	where	to	find	the	appropriate	reminders	for	them
.*


Project	Support	Materials


Project	support	materials	are	not	project	actions,	and	they’re	not	project reminders.	They’re	resources	to	support	your	actions	and	thinking	about	your projects. 


 
Don’t	Use	Support	Material	for	Reminding


What	continues	to	talk	to	you	psychologically	in	your	environment,	demanding	that	you	do something	about	it? 


Typically,	people	use	stacks	of	paper,	stuffed	file	folders,	and/or	a	plethora	of	e-mails	and	digital	documents	as	reminders	that	(1)	they’ve	got	a	project,	and	(2) they’ve	got	to	do	something	about	it.	They’re	essentially	making	support materials	serve	as	action	reminders.	The	problem	is	that	next	actions	and Waiting	For	items	on	these	projects	have	usually	not	been	determined	and	are psychologically	still	embedded	in	the	stacks	and	the	files	and	e-mails—giving them	the	aura	of	just	more	stuff	that	repels	its	(un)organizer	instead	of	attracting him	or	her	to	action.	It	delivers	an	incessant	subliminal	chant:	“Do	something about	me!	Decide	something	about	me!	Follow	up	with	something	about	me!” 


When	you’re	on	the	run,	in	the	heat	of	the	activities	of	the	day,	files	like	that	are the	last	things	you’ll	want	to	pick	up	and	peruse	for	actions.	You’ll	actually	go


numb	to	the	files	and	the	piles	because	they	don’t	prompt	you	to	do	anything	and they	simply	create	more	mental	noise	and	emotional	anxiety. 


If	you’re	in	this	kind	of	situation	you	must	first	add	the	project	itself	to	your Projects	list,	as	a	reminder	that	there’s	an	outcome	to	be	achieved.	Then	the action	steps	and	Waiting	For	items	must	be	put	onto	their	appropriate	action reminder	lists.	Finally,	when	it’s	time	to	actually	 
do
	an	action,	like	making	a	call to	someone	about	the	project,	you	can	pull	out	all	the	materials	you	think	you might	need	to	have	as	support	during	the	conversation. 


To	reiterate,	you	 
don’t
	want	to	use	support	materials	as	your	primary reminders	of	what	to	do—that	should	be	relegated	to	your	action	lists.	If, however,	the	materials	contain	project	plans	and	overviews	in	addition	to	ad	hoc archival	and	reference	information,	you	may	want	to	keep	them	a	little	more visibly	accessible	than	you	do	the	pure	reference	materials	in	your	filing	cabinet or	on	your	computer.	These	are	fine	to	store	support	stuff,	too,	as	long	as	you have	the	discipline	to	pull	out	the	file	drawer	or	open	the	computer	to	the	proper directory	and	files	and	take	a	look	at	the	plans	every	time	you	do	your	Weekly Review.	If	not,	you’re	better	off	storing	those	kinds	of	project	support	files (perhaps	with	printouts	from	computer	files)	in	a	standing	file	holder	or	a separate	Pending	stack	tray	on	your	desk	or	other	visually	available	surface. 


To	return	to	the	previous	example	of	moving	into	a	new	residence,	you	could have	a	folder	labeled	“Upgrades—37	Pinkerton	Place”	containing	all	the	plans and	details	and	notes	about	the	patio	and	kitchen	and	office	area.	In	your	Weekly Review,	when	you	came	to	“Upgrade	new	residence”	on	your	Projects	list,	you’d pull	out	the	file	for	that	project	and	thumb	through	all	your	notes	to	ensure	that you	weren’t	missing	any	possible	next	actions.	Those	actions	would	then	get done,	delegated,	or	deferred	to	your	action	lists,	and	the	folder	would	be	refiled until	you	needed	it	again	for	doing	the	actions	or	for	your	next	Weekly	Review. 


Many	people	who	interact	with	current	and	prospective	clients	have attempted	to	use	client	folders	and/or	client-relationship-management	(CRM) software	to	“manage	the	account.”	The	problem	here	is	that	some	material	is	just facts	or	historical	data	that	needs	to	be	stored	as	background	for	when	you	might be	able	to	use	it,	and	some	of	what	must	be	tracked	are	the	actions	required	to move	the	relationships	forward.	The	latter	can	be	more	effectively	organized within	your	action-lists	system.	Client	information	is	just	that,	and	it	can	be folded	into	a	general-reference	file	on	the	client	or	stored	within	a	clients-focused	library.	But	if	I	need	to	call	a	client,	I	don’t	want	that	reminder embedded	anywhere	but	on	a	Calls	list. 
*


Organizing	Ad	Hoc	Project	Thinking


In	chapter	3,	I	suggested	that	you	will	often	have	ideas	that	you’ll	want	to	keep about	projects	but	that	are	not	necessarily	next	actions.	Those	ideas	fall	into	the broad	category	of	“project	support	materials,”	and	may	be	anything	from	a notion	about	something	you	might	want	to	do	on	your	next	vacation	to	a clarification	of	some	major	components	in	a	project	plan.	These	thoughts	could come	as	you’re	driving	down	the	freeway	listening	to	a	news	story	on	the	radio, or	reading	a	relevant	article.	What	do	you	do	with	that	kind	of	material? 


There	is	no	need	ever	to	lose	an	idea	about	a	project,	theme,	or	topic. 


My	recommendation	here	is	that	you	consider	where	you’re	keeping	tabs	on the	project	or	topic	itself,	how	you	might	add	information	to	it	in	that	format, and	where	you	might	store	any	more	extensive	data	associated	with	it.	Most professionals	will	have	several	options	for	how	to	handle	support	materials, including	attaching	notes	to	a	list	item,	organizing	digital	information	in	e-mail and/or	databases,	and	maintaining	paper-based	files	and	notes	in	notebooks. 


 
Attached	Notes	
 Most	organizing	software	allows	you	to	attach	a	digital	note	to	a list	or	calendar	entry.	If	you’re	keeping	a	Projects	list	within	the	software,	you can	go	to	the	project	you	had	a	thought	about,	open	or	attach	a	note	to	it,	and type	in	your	idea.	This	is	an	excellent	way	to	capture	“back	of	the	envelope” 


project	thinking.	If	your	Projects	list	is	paper	based,	you	can	attach	a	Post-it	note next	to	the	item	on	your	master	list	or,	if	you’re	a	low-tech	type,	on	the	item’s separate	sheet.	In	any	case,	you’ll	need	to	remember	to	look	at	the	attachment when	you	review	your	project	to	make	use	of	the	data. 


 
E-mail	and	Software	Applications	
 The	digital	world	offers	an	infinite	variety	of ways	to	deal	with	project	thoughts.	E-mails	that	might	contain	good	information related	to	your	projects	can	be	held	in	a	dedicated	e-mail	reference	folder, labeled	accordingly.	If	you	have	a	large	volume	of	e-mails	related	to	one	project, consider	creating	two	folders:	“Johnson	Partnership—Active”	and	“Johnson Partnership—Archive,”	or	some	such.	You	may	also	find	it	worthwhile,	if	you don’t	have	one	already,	to	set	up	a	more	rigorous	kind	of	digital	database	for organizing	your	thinking	on	a	project	or	topic.	An	enormous	flowering	of	such


tools	has	happened	in	this	century—from	simple	and	elegant	cloud-based	note-taking	and	notebook-organizing	software	that	permits	infinite	customization	for how	it’s	used,	to	group-sharing	file	and	project	management	systems,	to	personal project-organizing	applications	for	everything	from	free-form	mind	mapping	to organizing	large	writing	and	research	endeavors. 


The	inherent	danger	in	the	digital	world	is	how	much	data	can	be	spread	into	how	many	different places	so	easily,	without	coordinating	links. 


The	bad	news	about	the	good	news	of	the	huge	assortment	of	options	for digital	project	support	is	the	ease	with	which	we	are	seduced	into	spreading potentially	meaningful	information	into	such	a	multiplicity	of	locations	and mechanisms	that	it	can	take	us	almost	back	to	square	one:	we	don’t	know	where it	all	is,	can’t	see	it	all	integrated	for	appropriate	overviewing	from	the	right perspective	at	the	right	time,	aren’t	sure	exactly	how	to	put	what	data	where	.	.	. 


so	we	wind	up	trying	to	keep	it	all	coordinated	back	in	our	heads!	I	continually find	interesting	new	ways	to	track	relevant	information	for	various	things	I’m doing,	but	I	retain	sanity	only	when	I	keep	a	clearly	delineated	and	accessible Projects	list	and	ensure	that	I’m	scanning	across	any	related	parts	of	my	system regularly	for	pertinent	details. 


 
Paper-Based	Files	
 Having	a	separate	file	folder	devoted	to	each	project	makes	a lot	of	sense	when	you’re	accumulating	paper-based	materials;	it	may	be	low-tech,	but	it’s	an	elegant	solution	nonetheless.	Simplicity	and	ease	of	handling make	for	a	good	general-reference	filing	system—one	that	lets	you	feel comfortable	about	creating	a	folder	for	scraps	of	paper	from	a	meeting.	At	times it’s	easier	to	overview	and	access	project-related	information	for	planning sessions	and	conversations	using	a	physical	folder	than	trying	to	use	the	digital pieces	themselves	in	the	moment.	I	will	often	print	all	potentially	useful	items pertaining	to	the	project—spreadsheets,	schedules,	e-mails,	Web	pages,	etc.—to have	in	hand	as	reference	for	those	kinds	of	interactions. 


 
Pages	in	Notebooks	
 A	great	advantage	of	paper-based	loose-leaf	notebooks	is that	you	can	dedicate	a	whole	page	or	group	of	pages	to	an	individual	project. 


For	years	I	maintained	a	midsize	notebook	with	a	Projects	list	in	front	and	a Project	Support	section	toward	the	back,	where	I	always	had	some	blank	pages


to	capture	any	random	thinking	or	plans	and	details	about	projects	on	my	list. 


Though	paper-based	personal	system	components	are	increasingly	giving	way	to their	digital	counterparts,	the	notebook	model	is	a	valuable	one,	supporting	a more	integrated	and	multilevel	platform	for	well-oriented	thinking. 


Each	of	the	methods	previously	described	can	be	effective	in	organizing project	thoughts.	The	key	is	that	you	must	consistently	look	for	any	action	steps inherent	in	your	project	notes,	and	review	the	notes	themselves	as	often	as	you think	it	is	necessary,	given	the	nature	of	the	project. 


You’ll	also	want	to	clear	out	many	of	your	notes	once	they	become	inactive, unreal,	or	redundant,	to	keep	the	whole	system	from	catching	the	“stale”	virus. 


I’ve	found	a	lot	of	value	in	capturing	these	types	of	thoughts,	more	for	the	way	it consistently	helps	my	thinking	process	than	because	I	end	up	using	every	idea (most	I	don’t!).	But	I	try	to	make	sure	not	to	let	my	old	thoughts	stay	around	too long,	pretending	they’re	useful	when	they’re	not. 


Organizing	Nonactionable	Data


Interestingly,	one	of	the	biggest	problems	with	most	people’s	personal management	systems	is	that	they	blend	a	few	actionable	things	with	a	large amount	of	data	and	material	that	has	value	but	no	action	attached.	Having	good, consistent	structures	with	which	to	manage	the	nonactionable	items	in	our	work and	lives	is	as	important	as	managing	our	action	and	project	reminders.	When the	nonactionable	items	aren’t	properly	managed,	they	clog	up	the	whole process. 


Nonactionable	items	fall	into	three	large	categories:	reference	materials, reminders	of	things	that	need	no	action	now	but	might	at	a	later	date,	and	things that	you	don’t	need	at	all	(trash). 


Reference	Materials


Much	of	what	comes	across	your	desk	and	into	your	life	in	general	is	reference material.	There’s	no	action	required,	but	it’s	information	that	you	want	to	keep, for	a	variety	of	reasons.	Your	major	decisions	will	be	how	much	to	keep,	how much	room	to	dedicate	to	it,	what	form	it	should	be	stored	in,	and	where.	Much of	that	will	be	a	personal	or	organizational	judgment	call	based	upon	legal	or


logistical	concerns	or	personal	preferences.	The	only	time	you	should	have attention	on	your	reference	material	is	when	you	need	to	change	your	system	in some	way	because	you	have	too	much	or	too	little	information,	given	your	needs or	preferences. 


The	problem	most	people	have	psychologically	with	all	their	stuff	is	that	it’s still	 
stuff
—that	is,	they	haven’t	decided	what’s	actionable	and	what’s	not.	Once you’ve	made	a	clean	distinction	about	which	is	which,	what’s	left	as	reference should	have	no	pull	or	incompletion	associated	with	it—it’s	just	your	library. 


Your	only	decision	then	is	how	big	a	library	you	want.	When	you’ve	fully implemented	this	action-management	methodology,	you	can	be	as	big	a	pack	rat as	your	space	(physical	and	digital)	will	allow.	As	I’ve	increased	the	size	of	the hard	disk	on	my	computer	and	added	an	almost	infinite	backup	capability	on attached	drives	and	in	the	cloud,	I’ve	kept	that	much	more	e-mail	in	my	archives and	that	many	more	digital	photographs.	The	more	the	merrier,	as	far	as	I’m concerned,	since	increasing	the	volume	of	pure	reference	material	adds	no psychological	weight. 


The	Variety	of	Reference	Systems


Reference	material	now	shows	up	in	many	forms	(topics	and	media),	with numerous	ways	to	organize	it.	What	follows	is	a	brief	discussion	of	some	of	the most	common. 


General-reference	filing—paper,	e-mail,	and	simple	digital	storage Large-category	filing


Contact	managers


Libraries	and	archives


Your	reference	and	filing	system	should	be	a	simple	library	of	data,	easily	retrievable—not	your reminder	for	actions,	projects,	priorities,	or	prospects. 


 
General-Reference	Filing	
 As	I’ve	emphasized	in	previous	chapters,	a	good	filing system	is	critical	for	processing	and	organizing	your	stuff.	It’s	also	a	must	for dealing	with	the	paper-based	material	and	ad	hoc	digital	information	that	are valuable	to	you	for	one	reason	or	another,	and	you’ll	need	a	way	to	store	both. 


Ideally	you	already	set	up	a	general-reference	filing	system	as	you	were


processing	“in.”	You	need	to	feel	comfortable	storing	even	a	single	piece	of paper	that	you	might	want	to	refer	to	later,	or	an	article	you	read	online,	and	your general-reference	system	must	be	informal	and	accessible	enough	that	it’s	a	snap to	file	something	away,	right	at	hand	where	you	do	your	work	and	personal administration	and	review.	If	you’re	not	set	up	that	way	yet,	look	back	at	chapter 4	for	help	on	this	topic. 


Most	people	wind	up	needing	from	one	to	four	physical	file	drawers,	many dozens	of	e-mail	reference	folders,	and	other	digital	storage	locations	and categories	that	can	range	from	a	few	to	hundreds
.*
	The	Web	itself	is	nothing more	than	a	huge	digital	filing	cabinet,	which	both	relieves	the	need	to	create your	own	digital	reference	library	and	produces	a	huge	amount	of	the	type	of information	that	you	will	likely	want	to	collect	and	organize	within	your	own system.	The	ever-increasing	plethora	of	information	and	ways	to	access	and organize	it	only	forces	the	necessity	to	distinguish	nonactionable	from	actionable inputs,	and	to	create	and	maintain	an	easily	usable	system	of	reference	data storage. 


 
Large-Category	Filing	
 Any	topic	that	requires	more	than	fifty	folders	and/or major	documents	should	probably	be	given	its	own	section,	drawer,	or	digital database,	with	its	own	alpha-sorted	or	other	easily	searchable	system.	For instance,	if	you’re	managing	a	corporate	merger	and	need	to	keep	hold	of	a	lot	of the	paperwork,	you	may	want	to	dedicate	two	or	three	whole	file	cabinets	to	hold all	the	documentation	required	in	the	due-diligence	process.	If	gardening	or sailing	or	cooking	is	your	passion,	you	may	need	at	least	a	whole	file	drawer	for each	of	those	designated	hobbies. 


Bear	in	mind	that	if	your	area	of	focus	has	support	material	that	could	blend into	other	areas	of	focus,	you	may	run	into	the	dilemma	of	whether	to	store	the information	in	general	reference	or	in	the	specialized	reference	files.	When	you read	a	great	article	about	wood	fencing	and	want	to	keep	it,	does	that	go	in	your Garden	cabinet	or	in	the	general	system	with	other	information	about	home-related	projects?	As	a	rule,	it’s	best	to	stick	with	one	general-reference	system except	for	a	very	limited	number	of	discrete	topics. 


 
Contact	Managers	
 Much	of	the	information	that	you	need	to	keep	is	directly related	to	people	in	your	network.	You	need	to	track	contact	information	of	all sorts—mobile,	home,	and	office	phone	numbers,	e-mail	addresses,	and	so	on.	In addition,	if	you	find	it	useful,	you	may	want	to	maintain	information	about	their


birthdays,	names	of	family	members,	hobbies,	interests,	etc.	In	a	more	rigorous professional	vein,	you	may	need	or	want	to	track	hire	dates,	performance-review dates,	goals	and	objectives,	and	other	potentially	relevant	data	for	staff development	and	legal	purposes. 


The	“contacts”	section	of	most	of	the	digital	and	paper	organizers	(along	with the	calendar)	has	probably	been	the	most	commonly	used	component.	Everyone needs	to	keep	track	of	phone	numbers	and	e-mail	addresses.	It’s	instructive	to note	that	this	is	purely	and	simply	reference	material.	No	action	is	required—this is	just	information	that	you	might	need	to	access	in	the	future.	As	digital	as	the world	seems	to	have	become,	many	people	still	have	stacks	of	collected	business cards	that	are	subtly	yelling	at	them,	“Decide	something	about	me!	Do something	with	me!” 


But	once	you	have	filtered	actionable	items	out	of	those	inputs,	there’s	no	big mystery	about	how	to	organize	contact	information,	aside	from	the	logistics	for your	individual	needs.	Again,	the	only	problem	comes	up	when	people	try	to make	their	contact	manager	serve	as	a	tool	for	reminding	them	about	things	they need	to	do.	That	doesn’t	work	(unless	it’s	part	of	a	well-functioning	CRM


system	that	includes	both	customer	information	and	action	triggers	appropriately assigned	and	incorporated).	As	long	as	all	the	actions	relative	to	people	you know	have	been	identified	and	tracked	in	your	action	reminder	lists,	there’s	no role	for	a	contact	manager	to	fill	other	than	being	a	data	store. 


The	only	issue	(or	opportunity)	then	becomes	how	much	information	you need	to	keep	and	where	and	in	what	equipment	you	need	to	keep	it	in	order	to have	it	accessible	when	you	want	it.	Nothing’s	perfect	in	that	regard,	but	as	the mobile	digital	Internet-connected	tools	increase	in	power,	along	with	their connection	to	various	data	stores,	both	the	ease	of	access	and	the	confusion	of options	will	increase	in	this	regard. 


 
Libraries	and	Archives:	Personalized	Levels


If	material	is	purely	for	reference,	the	only	issue	is	whether	it’s	worth	the	time	and	space	to	keep it. 


Information	that	might	be	useful	lives	at	many	levels.	You	could	probably	find out	pretty	much	anything	if	you	were	willing	to	dig	deep	enough.	The	question of	how	much	to	keep,	how	close,	and	in	what	form	will	be	a	changing	reality, 


given	the	variables	of	your	needs,	your	particular	comfort	levels	with	data,	and the	technology	that	turbocharges	your	relationship	to	global	information. 


Relative	to	your	personal	organization	and	productivity,	this	is	not	a	core	issue, so	long	as	all	of	your	projects	and	actions	are	in	a	control	system	that	you	work with	regularly.	Reference	material	in	all	its	forms	then	becomes	nothing	more	or less	than	material	to	capture	and	create	access	to	according	to	your	particular proclivities,	requirements,	and	capabilities. 


Some	degree	of	consistency	will	always	make	things	easier.	What	kinds	of things	do	you	need	with	you	all	the	time?	Those	must	go	into	your	ubiquitously available	mobile	device	or	notebook.	What	do	you	need	for	meetings	or	off-site events?	That	should	be	put	into	your	briefcase,	pack,	satchel,	or	purse.	What might	you	need	when	you’re	working	in	your	office?	That	should	be	put	into your	personal	filing	system	or	your	networked	computer.	What	about	rare situations	relative	to	your	job?	Material	needed	for	those	could	be	archived	in departmental	files,	off-site	storage,	or	deep	in	the	digital	cloud.	What	could	you find	on	the	Web	anytime	you	might	need	it?	You	don’t	need	to	do	anything	with that	information,	unless	you	require	it	when	you’re	away	from	a	good	Internet connection,	in	which	case	you	should	print	the	data	out	when	you’re	online	and store	it	in	a	file	you	can	take	with	you. 


Do	you	see	how	that	personal	organization	of	reference	material	is	simply	a logistical	and	purpose-based	one?	Distinguishing	actionable	from	nonactionable things	is	the	first	key	success	factor	in	this	arena.	Second	is	determining	what your	potential	use	of	the	information	is,	and	therefore	where	and	how	it	should be	stored.	Once	these	are	addressed,	you	have	total	freedom	to	manage	and organize	as	much	or	as	little	reference	material	as	you	want.	There	is	no


“perfect”	reference	system.	Its	structures	and	content	demand	a	highly	individual decision	that	ought	to	be	based	on	the	ratio	of	the	value	received	to	the	time	and effort	required	for	capturing	and	maintaining	it.	You	are	better	off	starting	with real	information	you	want	to	keep,	deciding	the	best	place	to	put	it	so	it’s retrievable,	and	crafting	that	from	the	ground	up	than	trying	to	choose	or	design a	system	theoretically.	You	will	definitely	hone	your	reference	libraries	into	a larger,	more	sensible	framework	as	time	goes	on,	but	that	will	best	be	built	from upgrading	how	you’re	managing	your	day-to-day	realities.	Tolerate	some ambiguity	here,	in	terms	of	figuring	out	the	best	way	to	do	it	all.	The	key	will	be some	regular	overviewing	and	reassessment	of	your	system,	and	dynamically course-correcting	as	needed. 


Someday/Maybes


Someday/Maybes	are	not	throwaway	items.	They	may	be	some	of	the	most	interesting	and creative	things	you’ll	ever	get	involved	with. 


The	second	thing	to	deal	with	in	organizing	nonactionable	items	is	how	to	track things	that	you	want	to	reassess	in	the	future.	These	could	range	from	a	special trip	you	might	want	to	take	one	day,	to	books	you	might	want	to	read,	to	projects you	might	want	to	tackle	in	the	next	fiscal	year,	to	skills	and	talents	you	might want	to	develop.	For	a	full	implementation	of	this	model	you’ll	need	some	sort of	“back	burner”	or	“on	hold”	component. 


There	are	several	ways	to	stage	things	for	later	review,	all	of	which	will	work to	get	them	off	your	current	radar	and	your	mind.	You	can	put	the	items	on various	versions	of	Someday/Maybe	lists	or	trigger	them	on	your	calendar	or	in a	digital	or	paper-based	tickler	system. 


Someday/Maybe	List


It’s	highly	likely	that	if	you	did	a	complete	mind	sweep	when	you	were collecting	things	from	your	mental	space,	you	came	up	with	some	things	you’re not	sure	you	want	to	commit	to.	“Learn	Spanish,”	“Get	Marcie	a	horse,”	“Climb Mt.	Washington,”	“Write	a	mystery	novel,”	and	“Get	a	vacation	cottage”	are typical	projects	that	fall	into	this	category. 


If	you	haven’t	already	done	it,	I	recommend	that	you	create	a


Someday/Maybe	list	in	whatever	organizing	system	you’ve	chosen.	Then	give yourself	permission	to	populate	that	list	with	all	the	items	of	that	type	that	have occurred	to	you	so	far.	You’ll	probably	discover	that	simply	having	the	list	and starting	to	fill	it	out	will	cause	you	to	come	up	with	all	kinds	of	creative	ideas. 


Activating	and	maintaining	your	Someday/Maybe	category	unleashes	the	flow	of	your	creative thinking—you	have	permission	to	imagine	cool	things	to	do	without	having	to	commit	to	doing anything	about	them	yet. 


You	may	also	be	surprised	to	find	that	some	of	the	things	you	write	on	the list	will	actually	come	to	pass,	almost	without	your	making	any	conscious	effort


to	make	them	happen.	If	you	acknowledge	the	power	of	the	imagination	to	foster changes	in	perception	and	performance,	it’s	easy	to	see	how	having	a Someday/Maybe	list	out	in	front	of	your	conscious	mind	could	potentially	add many	wonderful	adventures	to	your	life	and	work.	We’re	likely	to	seize opportunities	when	they	arise	if	we’ve	already	identified	and	captured	them	as	a possibility.	That	has	certainly	been	my	own	experience:	learning	to	play	the	flute and	how	to	sail	in	the	open	ocean	started	in	this	category	for	me.	In	addition	to your	in-tray,	there	are	two	rich	sources	to	tap	for	your	Someday/Maybe	list:	your creative	imagination	and	your	list	of	current	projects. 


 
Make	an	Inventory	of	Your	Creative	Imaginings	
 What	are	the	things	you	really might	want	to	do	someday	if	you	have	the	time,	money,	and	inclination?	Write them	on	your	Someday/Maybe	list.	Typical	categories	include:


Things	to	get	or	build	for	your	home


Hobbies	to	take	up


Skills	to	learn


Creative	expressions	to	explore


Clothes	and	accessories	to	buy


Toys	(hi-tech	and	otherwise!)	to	acquire


Trips	to	take


Organizations	to	join


Service	projects	to	contribute	to


Things	to	see	and	do


 
Reassess	Your	Current	Projects	
 Now’s	a	good	time	to	review	your	Projects	list from	a	more	elevated	perspective	(that	is,	the	standpoint	of	your	job,	goals,	and personal	commitments)	and	consider	whether	you	might	transfer	some	of	your current	commitments	to	Someday/Maybe.	If	on	reflection	you	realize	that	an optional	project	doesn’t	have	a	chance	of	getting	your	attention	for	the	next	few months	or	more,	move	it	to	this	list. 


People	have	at	times	found	it	useful	even	to	subcategorize	their Someday/Maybe	projects.	There	might	be	a	significant	difference	for	you	to think	about	projects	you	really	want	to	do	around	your	home	as	soon	as	you	have the	resources	versus	your	“bucket	list”	kind	of	fantasies,	such	as	climbing	a mountain	in	Nepal	or	creating	a	foundation	for	disadvantaged	kids.	In	a company	this	might	be	a	distinction	between	“parking	lot”	ideas	(“Let’s	save


that	to	discuss	at	our	next	quarterly	meeting”)	and	keeping	track	of	the	projects you	might	energize	when	and	if	significant	capital	shows	up.	The	key	here	is	to pay	attention,	as	you	experiment	with	these	options,	to	whether	your	lists	and subcategories	are	unnerving	or	energizing	you. 


Special	Categories	of	Someday/Maybe


More	than	likely	you	have	some	special	interests	that	involve	lots	of	possible things	to	do.	It	can	be	fun	to	collect	these	on	lists.	For	instance: Food—recipes,	menus,	restaurants,	wines


Children—things	to	do	with	them


Books	to	read


Music	to	download


Movies	to	see


Gift	ideas


Web	sites	to	explore


Weekend	trips	to	take


Ideas—Misc.	(meaning	you	don’t	know	where	else	to	put	them!)


These	kinds	of	lists	can	be	a	cross	between	reference	and	Someday/Maybe—


reference	because	you	can	just	collect	and	add	to	lists	of	good	wines	or restaurants	or	books,	to	consult	as	you	like;	Someday/Maybe	because	you	might want	to	review	the	listed	items	on	a	regular	basis	to	remind	yourself	to	try	one	or more	of	them	at	some	point. 


In	any	case,	this	is	another	great	reason	to	have	an	organizing	system	that makes	it	easy	to	capture	things	that	may	add	value	and	variety	and	interest	to your	life—without	clogging	your	mind	and	work	space	with	undecided, unfinished	business. 


The	Danger	of	“Hold	and	Review”	Files	and	Piles


 
What	lies	in	our	power	to	do,	lies	in	our	power	not	to	do. 


 
—Aristotle


Many	people	have	created	some	sort	of	“Hold	and	Review”	pile	or	file	(or	whole drawer	or	e-mail	folder)	that	vaguely	fits	within	the	category	of Someday/Maybe.	They	tell	themselves,	“When	I	have	time,	I	may	like	to	get	to this,”	and	a	“Hold	and	Review”	file	seems	a	convenient	place	to	put	it.	I personally	don’t	recommend	this	particular	kind	of	subsystem,	because	in virtually	every	case	I	have	come	across,	the	person	held	but	didn’t	review,	and there	was	numbness	and	resistance	about	the	stack	and	contents.	The	value	of someday/maybe	disappears	if	you	don’t	put	your	conscious	awareness	back	onto it	with	some	consistency. 


Also,	there’s	a	big	difference	between	something	that’s	managed	well,	as	a Someday/Maybe	list,	and	something	that’s	just	a	catchall	bucket	for	stuff. 


Usually	much	of	that	stuff	needs	to	be	tossed,	some	of	it	needs	to	go	into Read/Review,	some	needs	to	be	filed	as	reference,	some	belongs	on	the	calendar or	in	a	tickler	file	(see	page	
182)
	for	review	in	a	month	or	perhaps	at	the beginning	of	the	next	quarter,	and	some	items	actually	have	next	actions	on them.	Many	times,	after	appropriately	processing	someone’s	“Hold	and	Review” 


drawer	or	file,	I’ve	discovered	there	was	nothing	left	in	it! 


Using	the	Calendar	for	Future	Options


Your	calendar	can	be	a	very	handy	place	to	park	reminders	of	things	you	 
might
 want	to	consider	doing	in	the	future.	Most	of	the	people	I’ve	coached	were	not nearly	as	comfortable	with	their	calendars	as	they	could	have	been;	otherwise they	probably	would	have	found	many	more	things	to	put	in	there. 


One	of	the	three	uses	of	a	calendar	is	for	 
day-specific	information
.	This category	can	include	a	number	of	things,	but	one	of	the	most	creative	ways	to utilize	the	calendar	function	is	to	enter	things	that	you	want	to	take	off	your mind	and	reassess	at	some	later	date.	Here	are	a	few	of	the	myriad	things	you should	consider	inserting:


Triggers	for	activating	projects


Events	you	might	want	to	participate	in


Decision	catalysts


 
Triggers	for	Activating	Projects	
 If	you	have	a	project	that	you	don’t	really	need to	think	about	now	but	that	deserves	a	flag	at	some	point	in	the	future,	you	can pick	an	appropriate	date	and	put	a	reminder	about	the	project	in	your	calendar


for	that	day.	It	should	go	in	some	day-specific	(versus	time-specific)	calendar slot	for	the	things	you	want	to	be	reminded	of	on	that	day;	then	when	the	day arrives,	you	see	the	reminder	and	insert	the	item	as	an	active	project	on	your Projects	list.	Typical	candidates	for	this	treatment	are:


Special	events	with	a	certain	lead	time	for	handling	(product	launches, fund-raisers,	etc.)


Regular	events	that	you	need	to	prepare	for,	such	as	budget	reviews,	annual conferences,	planning	events,	or	meetings	(e.g.,	when	should	you	add	next year’s	“Annual	sales	conference”	or	“Get	kids	set	up	for	next	school	year” 


to	your	Projects	list?)


Key	dates	for	significant	people	that	you	might	want	to	do	something	about (birthdays,	anniversaries,	holiday	gift	giving,	etc.)


 
Events	You	Might	Want	to	Participate	In	
 You	probably	get	notices	constantly about	seminars,	conferences,	speeches,	and	social	and	cultural	events	that	you may	want	to	decide	about	attending	as	the	time	gets	closer.	So	figure	out	when that	closer	time	is	and	put	a	trigger	in	your	calendar	on	the	appropriate	date—for example:


“Chamber	of	Commerce	breakfast	tomorrow?” 


“Lions	football	tickets	go	on	sale	today” 


“BBC	special	on	climate	change	at	8:00	p.m.” 


“Garden	Club	tea	next	Saturday” 


If	you	can	think	of	any	jogs	like	these	that	you’d	like	to	put	into	your	system, do	it	now. 


It’s	OK	to	decide	not	to	decide—as	long	as	you	have	a	decide-not-to-decide	system. 


 
Decision	Catalysts	
 Once	in	a	while	there	may	be	a	significant	decision	that	you need	to	make	but	can’t	(or	don’t	want	to)	right	away.	That’s	fine,	in	terms	of your	own	self-management	process,	as	long	as	you’ve	concluded	that	the additional	information	you	need	has	to	come	from	an	 
internal
	rather	than	an 
external
	source	(e.g.,	you	need	to	sleep	on	it),	or	there	is	a	good	reason	to	delay your	decision	until	a	last	responsible	moment	(allowing	all	factors	to	be	as


current	as	possible	before	you	choose	how	to	move	on	it).	But	in	order	to	move to	a	level	of	OK-ness	about	 
not
	deciding,	you’d	better	put	out	a	safety	net	that you	can	trust	to	get	you	to	focus	on	the	issue	appropriately	in	the	future.	A calendar	reminder	can	serve	that	purpose. 
*


Some	typical	decision	areas	in	this	category	include:


Hire/fire


Merge/acquire/sell/divest


Change	job/career


Potential	strategy	redirection


This	is	a	big	topic	to	devote	so	little	space	to,	I	know,	but	go	ahead	and	ask yourself,	“Is	there	any	major	decision	for	which	I	should	create	a	future	trigger, so	I	can	feel	comfortable	just	‘hanging	out’	with	it	for	now?”	If	there	is,	put some	reminder	in	your	calendar	to	revisit	the	issue. 


The	“Tickler”	File


One	elegant	way	to	manage	nonactionable	items	that	may	need	an	action	in	the future	is	the	tickler	file
.*
	A	three-dimensional	version	of	a	calendar,	the	original version	of	this	allows	you	to	hold	 
physical
	reminders	of	things	that	you	want	to see	or	remember—not	now,	but	in	the	future.	It	can	be	an	extremely	functional tool,	allowing	you	to	in	effect	set	up	your	own	postal	service	and	“mail”	things to	yourself	for	receipt	on	a	designated	future	date.	I	have	used	a	tickler	file	for years.	Even	though	technology	has	made	reminders	of	this	sort	more	easily digitized	in	software	and	mobile	access	devices,	it’s	possible	that	numerous things	for	you	are	more	easily	managed	in	this	low-tech	manner.	The	promise	of digital	management	of	such	things	is	marching	forward	incessantly,	but	there remain	many	things	in	my	personal	system	that	are	more	efficiently	managed	by physical	particles	as	reminders. 


Essentially	the	tickler	file	is	a	simple	file-folder	system	that	allows	you	to distribute	paper	and	other	physical	reminders	in	such	a	way	that	whatever	you want	to	see	on	a	particular	date	in	the	future	“automatically”	shows	up	that	day in	your	in-tray. 


If	you	have	a	secretary	or	assistant,	you	can	entrust	at	least	a	part	of	this	task to	him	or	her,	assuming	that	he	or	she	has	some	working	version	of	this	or	a similar	system.	Typical	examples	would	be:


“Hand	me	this	agenda	the	morning	of	the	day	I	have	the	meeting.” 


“Give	this	back	to	me	on	Monday	to	rethink,	since	it	applies	to	our	board meeting	on	Wednesday.” 


“Remind	me	about	the	Hong	Kong	trip	two	weeks	ahead,	and	we’ll	plan	the logistics.” 


Then	every	day	of	the	week,	that	day’s	folder	is	pulled	and	reviewed. 


Even	if	you	are	in	a	high-level	professional	role,	while	you	can	(and	probably should)	utilize	staff	to	handle	as	much	of	this	as	is	appropriate,	I	recommend that,	if	you	can	integrate	it	into	your	lifestyle,	you	maintain	your	own	tickler	file functionality.	There	are	many	useful	things	you	can	do,	at	least	some	of	which you	may	want	to	avail	yourself	of	outside	the	pale	of	your	assistant’s responsibilities.	I	use	my	tickler	file	to	manage	travel	documents	I	need	at	hand on	a	certain	day,	reminders	of	birthdays	and	special	events	upcoming	(that would	take	up	too	much	visual	room	on	my	digital	calendar),	printouts	of interesting	things	to	explore	when	I	might	have	more	time	in	a	couple	of	months, etc. 


Bottom	line:	the	tickler	file	demands	only	a	one-second-per-day	new behavior	to	make	it	work,	and	it	has	a	payoff	value	exponentially	greater	than the	personal	investment.	It	represents	a	unique	executive	function:	deciding	not to	decide	until	a	certain	point. 


 
Setting	Up	a	Tickler	File	
 If	you	are	doing	this	in	a	physical	system,	you	need forty-three	folders—thirty-one	labeled	“1”	through	“31,”	and	twelve	more labeled	with	the	names	of	the	months	of	the	year.	The	daily	files	are	kept	in front,	beginning	with	the	file	for	tomorrow’s	date	(if	today	is	October	5,	then	the first	file	would	be	“6”).	The	succeeding	daily	files	represent	the	days	of	the	rest of	the	month	(“6”	through	“31”).	Behind	the	“31”	file	is	the	monthly	file	for	the next	month	(“November”),	and	behind	that	are	the	daily	files	“1”	through	“5.” 


Following	that	are	the	rest	of	the	monthly	files	(“December”	through	“October”). 


The	next	daily	file	is	emptied	into	your	in-tray	every	day,	and	then	the	folder	is refiled	at	the	back	of	the	dailies	(at	which	point,	instead	of	October	6,	it represents	 
November
	6).	In	the	same	way,	when	the	next	monthly	file	reaches the	front	(on	October	31	after	you	empty	the	daily	file,	the	“November”	file	will be	the	next	one,	with	the	daily	files	“1”	through	“31”	behind	it),	it’s	emptied	into the	in-tray	and	refiled	at	the	back	of	the	monthlies	to	represent	November	a	year from	now.	This	is	a	perpetual	file,	meaning	that	at	any	given	time	it	contains


files	for	the	next	thirty-one	days	and	the	next	twelve	months. 


The	big	advantage	of	using	file	folders	for	your	tickler	system	is	that	they allow	you	to	store	actual	documents	(the	form	that	needs	to	be	filled	out	on	a certain	day,	the	meeting	agenda	that	needs	to	be	reviewed	then,	the	invoice	that you’re	holding	payment	on	until	that	day,	etc.). 




FILE-FOLDER-STYLE	SETUP	(OCTOBER	5)


In	order	for	the	system	to	work,	you	must	check	and	update	it	every	day.	If you	forget	to	empty	the	daily	file,	you	won’t	trust	the	system	to	handle	important data,	and	you’ll	have	to	manage	those	things	some	other	way.	If	you	leave	town (or	don’t	access	the	file	on	the	weekend),	you	must	be	sure	to	check	the	folders for	the	days	you’ll	be	away,  
before
	you	go. 


Checklists:	Creative	and	Constructive	Reminders


The	last	topic	in	personal	system	organization	that	deserves	some	attention	is	the care	and	feeding	of	checklists,	those	“recipes	of	potential	ingredients”	for projects,	work	processes	and	procedures,	events,	and	areas	of	value,	interest,	and responsibility.	In	essence,	any	of	the	lists	or	categories	of	reminders	we’ve already	discussed	are	checklists,	in	that	they	serve	the	function	of	providing things	to	check	or	review	to	ensure	that	you’re	not	missing	something	in	that area.	The	more	common	idea	of	checklists,	however,	refers	to	a	listing	of	the contents	of	a	topic,	procedure,	or	some	arena	of	interest	or	activity,	to	be	utilized either	at	a	specific	time	or	whenever	you	engage	in	a	particular	kind	of	activity. 


These	can	range	from	big-picture	outlines	of	areas	of	focus	in	your	job	or	your life	down	to	the	detailed	instructions	of	how	to	load	pictures	onto	a	Web	site. 


Many	years	ago	Alfred	North	Whitehead	cogently	observed,	“Civilization advances	by	extending	the	number	of	important	operations	which	we	can perform	without	thinking	about	them.”	Checklists	provide	the	micro	version	of that	macro	observation:	whenever	you	have	to	think	about	anything,	either because	of	some	regularity	of	a	refreshed	view	(“At	the	end	of	every	calendar year,	I	want/need	to	.	.	.”)	or	a	specific	situation	that	requires	more	detail	than you	can	easily	recall	(“Before	I	deliver	a	seminar,	I	need	to	.	.	.”),	you	should entrust	those	jobs	to	your	“external	mind”—your	management	system	that	holds the	details	you	need	to	engage	with	at	appropriate	times. 
*


There	are	an	infinite	number	of	possible	checklists	that	allow	you	to	have more	relaxed	control	in	various	situations	across	your	life	and	work.	If	you	ever refer	to	a	recipe	in	a	cookbook	in	order	to	prepare	a	specific	dish,	you’re	using	a checklist	to	boost	your	focus	and	productivity.	If	your	board	has	tasked	you	with three	key	initiatives	or	outcomes	for	the	year,	reviewing	those	prior	to	your board	meeting	would	be	utilizing	a	checklist. 


Because	I	am	describing	the	process	of	clarifying	and	organizing	what	may be	on	your	mind,	to	begin	to	implement	this	system	I’ll	focus	on	a	common	set of	topics	that	emerge	for	people,	for	which	checklists	are	often	the	best	solution. 


Things	You	Want	to	Pay	Attention	To


Often,	when	we	are	working	with	people	to	clear	up	what	is	on	their	minds,	what shows	up	are	things	like	this:


Exercise	more	regularly


Spend	more	quality	time	with	my	kids


Do	more	proactive	planning	for	my	division


Maintain	good	morale	on	my	team


Ensure	we’re	in	alignment	with	corporate	strategy


Keep	the	client	billing	process	up-to-date


Focus	more	on	my	spiritual	practices


Pay	more	attention	to	the	individual	goals	of	my	staff	members


Keep	myself	motivated	in	my	job


Keep	current	conversations	and	updates	going	with	key	people	in	my company


What	should	you	do	with	these	“fuzzier”	kinds	of	internal	commitments	and areas	of	attention? 


First,	Identify	Inherent	Projects	and	Action


For	much	of	this	kind	of	stuff,	there	is	still	a	project	and/or	an	action	that	needs to	be	defined.	“Exercise	more	regularly”  
really
	translates	for	many	people	into


“Set	up	regular	exercise	program”	(project)	and	“Call	Sally	for	suggestion	about gyms	and	personal	trainers”	(real	action	step).	In	such	cases,	inherent	projects and	actions	still	need	to	be	clarified	and	organized	into	a	personal	system.	Or


“Maintain	good	morale	on	my	team”	should	become	a	project	(“Explore	team-building	processes	for	my	department”)	with	a	specific	action	step	(“E-mail	our HR	director	to	get	her	input	on	this	opportunity”). 


But	there	 
are	
 some	things	that	don’t	quite	fit	into	that	category,	and	often, appropriate	checklists	are	needed	to	address	them. 


Blueprinting	Key	Areas	of	Work	and	Accountability


Objectives	like	“Maintain	good	physical	conditioning”	or	“Keep	my	team


motivated”	may	still	need	to	be	built	into	some	sort	of	overview	checklist	that will	be	reviewed	regularly.	You	have	multiple	layers	of	outcomes	and	standards playing	on	your	psyche	and	your	choices	at	any	point	in	time,	and	knowing	what those	are,	at	all	the	different	levels,	is	always	a	good	idea	(and	yet	not	so	easy	to habitually	maintain	and	adhere	to). 


I	suggested	earlier	that	there	are	at	least	six	levels	of	your	“work”	that	could be	defined	and	that	each	level	deserves	its	own	acknowledgment	and	evaluation. 


A	complete	inventory	of	everything	you	hold	important	and	are	committed	to	on each	of	these	levels	would	represent	an	awesome	checklist.	It	might	include: Career	goals


Service


Family


Relationships


Community


Health	and	energy


Financial	resources


Creative	expression


And	then	moving	down	a	level,	within	your	job,	you	might	want	some reminders	of	your	key	areas	of	responsibility,	your	staff,	your	values,	and	so	on. 


A	list	of	these	might	contain	points	like:


Team	morale


Processes


Timelines


Staff	issues


Workload


Communications


Technology


All	of	these	items	could	in	turn	be	included	on	the	lists	in	your	personal system,	as	reminders	to	you,	as	needed,	to	keep	the	ship	on	course,	on	an	even keel.	Many	times	the	value	is	simply	to	affirm	that	the	specific	area	is	OK	as	is; nothing	needs	to	be	added	or	changed.	But	 
knowing
	that	adds	to	your	relaxed focus. 


The	More	Novel	the	Situation,	the	More	Control	Required
 The	degree	to	which	any	of	us	needs	to	maintain	checklists	and	external	controls is	directly	related	to	our	unfamiliarity	with	the	area	of	responsibility.	If	you’ve been	doing	what	you’re	doing	for	a	long	time,	and	there’s	no	pressure	on	you	to change	in	that	area,	you	probably	need	minimal	external	personal	organization	to stay	on	cruise	control.	You	know	when	things	must	happen	and	how	to	make them	happen,	and	your	system	is	fine,	status	quo.	You	could	manage	those	in your	sleep.	Often,	though,	that’s	not	the	case. 


Did	you	ever	have	to	go	through	some	prescribed	procedure	to	manage	a discrete	kind	of	financial	transaction,	log	in	and	refresh	a	software	application, or	even	go	through	several	necessary	steps	to	check	in	to	a	friend’s	vacation cabin,	and	you	had	the	experience	of	asking	yourself,	“Wait	a	minute,	what	do	I need	to	do,	now?”	In	any	of	those	situations	you	may	want	or	need	to	repeat,	you need	a	checklist.	I	am	dangerously	semiliterate	in	terms	of	computers	and software,	and	whenever	I	get	instruction	from	our	IT	experts	about	how	to	fix some	recurring	glitch,	it	is	easy	to	convince	myself	I	will	remember	what	they told	me.	I	have	learned	(too	many	times	the	hard	way)	to	create	checklists	for them. 


Checklists	can	be	highly	useful	to	let	you	know	what	you	 
don’t
	need	to	be	concerned	about. 


Many	times	you’ll	want	some	sort	of	checklist	to	help	you	maintain	a	focus until	you’re	more	familiar	with	what	you’re	doing.	If	your	CEO	suddenly disappeared,	for	example,	and	you	instantly	had	to	fill	her	shoes,	you’d	need some	overview	and	outlines	in	front	of	you	for	a	while	to	ensure	that	you	had	all the	mission-critical	aspects	of	the	job	handled.	And	if	you’ve	just	been	hired	into a	new	position,	with	new	responsibilities	that	are	relatively	unfamiliar	to	you, you’ll	want	a	framework	of	control	and	structure,	if	only	for	the	first	few months.	As	we	have	instituted	a	novel	organizational	structure	and	operating system	in	our	company,	we	have	been	using	many	critical	checklists	to	support our	meeting	practices	for	its	implementation,	until	they	become	automatic. 


There	have	been	times	when	I	needed	to	make	a	list	of	areas	that	I	had	to handle	temporarily,	until	things	were	under	control.	For	instance,	when	my	wife and	I	decided	to	create	a	brand-new	structure	for	a	business	we’d	been	involved with	for	many	years,	I	took	on	areas	of	responsibility	I’d	never	had	to	deal	with


before—namely,	accounting,	computers,	marketing,	legal,	and	administration. 


For	several	months	I	needed	to	keep	a	checklist	of	those	responsibilities	in	front of	me	to	ensure	that	I	filled	in	the	blanks	everywhere	and	managed	the	transition as	well	as	I	could.	After	the	business	got	onto	“cruise	control”	to	some	degree,	I no	longer	needed	that	list. 


Checklists	at	All	Levels


Be	open	to	creating	any	kind	of	checklist	as	the	urge	strikes	you.	The possibilities	are	endless—from	“Core	Life	Values”	to	“Things	to	Take Camping”	to	“Potential	Holiday	Gifts.”	Making	lists,	ad	hoc,	as	they	occur	to you,	is	one	of	the	most	powerful	yet	subtlest	and	simplest	procedures	that	you can	install	in	your	life. 


To	spark	your	creative	thinking,	here’s	a	list	of	some	of	the	topics	of checklists	I’ve	seen	and	used	over	the	years:


Job	Areas	of	Responsibility	(key	responsibility	areas)


Exercise	Regimens	(muscle	resistance	training	programs)


Travel	Checklist	(everything	to	take	on	or	do	before	a	trip)


Weekly	Review	(everything	to	review	and/or	update	on	a	weekly	basis) Training	Program	Components	(all	the	things	to	handle	when	putting	on	an event,	front	to	back)


Key	Clients


People	to	Stay	in	Touch	With	(all	the	people	you	might	want	to	connect with	in	your	network)


Year-end	Activities	(all	the	actions	for	closing	up	for	the	time	period) Personal	Development	(things	to	evaluate	regularly	to	ensure	personal balance	and	progress)


Jokes


Get	comfortable	with	checklists,	both	ad	hoc	and	more	permanent.	Be	ready to	create	and	eliminate	them	as	required.	Make	sure	you	have	an	easily	accessed place	to	put	a	new	list	that’s	also	attractive	and	even	fun	to	engage	with—in	a loose-leaf	notebook	or	in	a	software	application	that	is	readily	available. 


Appropriately	used,	checklists	can	be	a	tremendous	asset	in	enhancing	personal productivity	and	relieving	mental	pressure. 


Capability	and	willingness	to	instantly	make	a	checklist,	accessible	and	used	when	needed,	is	a core	component	of	high-performance	self-management. 


If	in	fact	you	have	now	 
captured	
 everything	that	represents	an	open	loop	in your	life	and	work,  
clarified
	and	processed	each	one	of	those	items	in	terms	of what	it	means	to	you	and	what	actions	are	required,	and	 
organized
	the	results into	an	intact	system	that	holds	a	current	and	complete	overview—large	and small—of	all	your	present	and	“someday”	projects,	then	you’re	ready	for	the next	step	of	implementation	in	the	art	of	stress-free	productivity:	the	reflection process. 


8


Reflecting:	Keeping	It	All	Fresh	and


Functional


THE	PURPOSE	OF	
this	whole	method	of	workflow	management	is	not	to	let	your	brain become	lax,	but	rather	to	enable	it	to	be	free	to	experience	more	elegant, productive,	and	creative	activity.	In	order	to	earn	that	freedom,	however,	your brain	must	engage	on	some	consistent	basis	with	all	your	commitments	and activities.	You	must	be	assured	that	you’re	doing	what	you	need	to	be	doing,	and that	it’s	OK	to	be	 
not
	doing	what	you’re	not	doing.	That	facilitates	the	condition of	 
being
 
present
,	which	is	always	the	optimal	state	from	which	to	operate. 


Reviewing	your	system	on	a	regular	basis,	reflecting	on	the	contents,	and keeping	it	current	and	functional	are	prerequisites	for	that	kind	of	clarity	and stability. 


If	you	have	a	list	of	calls	you	must	make,	for	example,	the	minute	that	list	is not	totally	current	with	 
all
	the	calls	you	need	to	make,	your	brain	will	not	trust the	system,	and	it	won’t	get	relief	from	its	lower-level	mental	tasks.	It	will	have to	take	back	the	job	of	remembering,	processing,	and	reminding,	which,	as	you should	know	by	now,	it	doesn’t	do	very	effectively. 


All	of	this	means	your	system	cannot	be	static.	In	order	to	support appropriate	action	choices,	it	must	be	kept	up-to-date.	And	it	should	trigger consistent	and	appropriate	evaluation	of	your	life	and	work	at	several	horizons. 


There	are	two	major	issues	that	need	to	be	handled	at	this	point: What	do	you	look	at	in	all	this,	and	when? 


What	do	you	need	to	do,	and	how	often,	to	ensure	that	all	of	it	works	as	a consistent	system,	freeing	you	to	think	and	manage	at	a	higher	level? 


A	real	review	process	will	lead	to	enhanced	and	proactive	new	thinking	in


key	areas	of	your	life	and	work.	Such	thinking	emerges	from	both	focused concentration	and	serendipitous	brainstorming,	which	will	be	triggered	and galvanized	by	a	consistent	personal	review	of	your	inventory	of	actions	and projects. 


What	to	Look	At,	When


Your	personal	system	and	behaviors	need	to	be	established	in	such	a	way	that you	can	see	all	the	action	options	you	need	to	see,  
when
	you	need	to	see	them. 


This	is	really	just	common	sense,	but	few	people	actually	have	their	processes and	their	organization	honed	to	the	point	where	they	are	as	functional	as	they could	be. 


When	you	have	access	to	a	phone	and	any	discretionary	time,	you	ought	to	at least	glance	at	the	list	of	all	the	phone	calls	you	need	to	make,	and	then	either direct	yourself	to	the	best	one	to	handle	or	give	yourself	permission	to	feel	OK


about	not	bothering	with	any	of	them.	When	you’re	about	to	go	in	for	a discussion	with	your	boss	or	your	partner,	take	a	moment	to	review	the outstanding	agendas	you	have	with	him	or	her,	so	you’ll	know	that	you’re	using your	time	most	effectively.	When	you	need	to	pick	up	something	at	the	dry cleaner,	first	quickly	review	all	the	other	errands	that	you	might	be	able	to	do	en route. 


A	few	seconds	a	day	is	usually	all	you	need	for	review,	as	long	as	you’re	looking	at	a	sufficient amount	of	the	right	things	at	the	right	time. 


People	often	ask	me,	“How	much	time	do	you	spend	looking	at	your system?”	My	answer	is	simply,	“As	much	time	as	I	need	to	feel	comfortable about	what	I’m	doing.”	In	actuality	it’s	an	accumulation	of	two	seconds	here, three	seconds	there.	What	most	people	don’t	realize	is	that	my	lists	are	in	one sense	my	office.	Just	as	you	might	have	Post-its	and	stacks	of	documents	that represent	work	to	do	at	your	workstation,	so	do	I	on	my	Next	Actions	lists	and calendar.	Assuming	that	you’ve	completely	collected,	processed,	and	organized your	stuff,	you’ll	most	likely	take	only	a	few	brief	moments	here	and	there	to access	your	system	for	day-to-day	reminders. 


Look	at	Your	Calendar	First	.	.	. 


Your	most	frequent	review	will	probably	be	of	your	daily	calendar,	and	your daily	tickler	folder	if	you’re	maintaining	one,	to	see	the	“hard	landscape”	and assess	what	has	to	get	done.	You	need	to	know	the	time	and	space	parameters first.	Knowing	that	you	have	nonstop	meetings	from	eight	a.m.	to	six	p.m.,	for example,	with	barely	a	half-hour	break	for	lunch,	will	help	you	make	necessary decisions	about	any	other	activities. 


.	.	.	Then	Your	Action	Lists


 
The	maintenance	of	life	and	the	pursuit	of	happiness	are	not	two	separate	issues. 


 
—Ayn	Rand


After	you	review	all	your	day-	and	time-specific	commitments	and	handle whatever	you	need	to	about	them,	your	next	most	frequent	area	for	review	will be	the	lists	of	all	the	actions	you	could	possibly	do	in	your	current	context.	If you’re	in	your	office,	for	instance,	you’ll	look	at	your	lists	of	calls,	computer actions,	and	in-office	things	to	do.	This	doesn’t	necessarily	mean	you	will	be 
doing
	anything	on	those	lists;	you’ll	just	evaluate	them	against	the	flow	of	other work	coming	at	you	to	ensure	that	you	make	the	best	choices	about	what	to	deal with.	You	need	to	feel	confident	that	you’re	not	missing	anything	critical. 


Frankly,	if	your	calendar	is	trustworthy	and	your	action	lists	are	current,	they may	be	the	only	things	in	the	system	you’ll	need	to	refer	to	more	than	every couple	of	days.	There	have	been	many	days	when	I	didn’t	need	to	look	at	 
any
	of my	lists,	in	fact,	because	it	was	clear	from	the	front	end—my	calendar—what	I 
wouldn’t	
 be	able	to	do. 


The	Right	Review	in	the	Right	Context


You	may	need	to	access	any	one	of	your	lists	at	any	time.	When	you	and	your life	partner	are	decompressing	at	the	end	of	the	day,	and	you	want	to	be	sure you’ll	take	care	of	the	“business”	the	two	of	you	manage	together	about	home, 


family,	and/or	personal	life,	you’ll	want	to	look	at	your	accumulated	agendas	for him	or	her.	On	the	other	hand,	if	your	boss	pops	in	for	a	face-to-face conversation	about	current	realities	and	priorities,	it	will	be	highly	functional	for you	to	have	your	Projects	list	up-to-date	and	your	Agenda	list	for	him	or	her right	at	hand.	When	you	suddenly	get	a	text	invitation	for	an	unplanned	but highly	strategic	lunch	meeting	with	a	potential	client	who	just	showed	up,	how fast	can	you	“clear	the	deck,”	print	relevant	data,	and	renegotiate	other commitments	to	be	fully	present	for	that	engagement,	which,	if	it	goes	well,	may extend	into	the	afternoon? 


Updating	Your	System


 
To	make	knowledge	productive,	we	will	have	to	learn	to	see	both	forest	and	tree.	We	will	have	to
 
learn	to	connect. 


 
—Peter	F.	Drucker


The	real	trick	to	ensuring	the	trustworthiness	of	the	whole	organization	system lies	in	regularly	refreshing	your	thinking	and	your	system	from	a	more	elevated perspective.	That’s	impossible	to	do,	however,	if	your	lists	fall	too	far	behind your	reality.	You	won’t	be	able	to	fool	yourself	about	this:	if	your	system	is	out of	date,	your	brain	will	be	forced	to	fully	engage	again	at	the	lower	level	of remembering. 


This	is	perhaps	the	biggest	challenge	of	all.	Once	you’ve	tasted	what	it’s	like to	have	a	clear	head	and	feel	in	control	of	everything	that’s	going	on,	can	you	do what	you	need	to	do	to	maintain	that	as	an	operational	standard?	The	many	years I’ve	spent	researching	and	implementing	this	methodology	with	countless	people have	proved	to	me	that	the	magic	key	to	the	sustainability	of	the	process	is	the Weekly	Review. 


The	Power	of	the	Weekly	Review


If	you’re	like	me	and	most	other	people,	no	matter	how	good	your	intentions may	be,	you’re	going	to	have	the	world	come	at	you	faster	than	you	can	keep	up. 


Many	of	us	seem	to	have	it	in	our	natures	to	consistently	entangle	ourselves	in more	than	we	have	the	ability	to	handle.	We	book	ourselves	in	back-to-back meetings	all	day,	go	to	after-hours	events	that	generate	ideas	and	commitments we	need	to	deal	with,	and	get	embroiled	in	engagements	and	projects	that	have the	potential	to	spin	our	creative	intelligence	into	cosmic	orbits. 


You	will	invariably	take	in	more	opportunities	than	your	system	can	process	on	a	daily	basis. 


That	whirlwind	of	activity	is	precisely	what	makes	the	Weekly	Review	so valuable.	It	builds	in	some	capturing,	reevaluation,	and	reprocessing	time	to	keep you	in	balance.	There	is	simply	no	way	to	do	this	necessary	regrouping	while you’re	trying	to	get	everyday	work	done. 


The	Weekly	Review	will	also	sharpen	your	intuitive	focus	on	your	important projects	as	you	deal	with	the	flood	of	new	input	and	potential	distractions coming	at	you	the	rest	of	the	week.	You’re	going	to	have	to	learn	to	say	no—


faster,	and	to	more	things—in	order	to	stay	afloat	and	comfortable.	Having	some dedicated	time	in	which	to	at	least	get	up	to	the	project	level	of	thinking	goes	a long	way	toward	making	that	easier. 


What	Is	the	Weekly	Review? 


Very	simply,	the	Weekly	Review	is	whatever	you	need	to	do	to	get	your	head empty	again	and	get	oriented	for	the	next	couple	of	weeks.	It’s	going	through	the steps	of	workflow	management—capturing,	clarifying,	organizing,	and reviewing	all	your	outstanding	commitments,	intentions,	and	inclinations—until you	can	honestly	say,	“I	absolutely	know	right	now	everything	I’m	not	doing	but could	be	doing	if	I	decided	to.” 


From	a	practical	standpoint,	here	is	the	three-part	drill	that	can	get	you	there: get	 
clear
,	get	 
current
,	and	get	 
creative
.	Getting	clear	will	ensure	that	all	your collected	stuff	is	processed.	Getting	current	will	ensure	that	all	your	orienting


“maps”	or	lists	are	reviewed	and	up-to-date.	The	creative	part	happens	to	some degree	automatically,	as	you	get	clear	and	current—you	will	naturally	be generating	ideas	and	perspectives	that	will	be	adding	value	to	your	thinking about	work	and	life. 


Get	Clear


This	is	the	initial	stage	of	gathering	up	all	the	loose	ends	that	have	been generated	in	the	course	of	your	busy	week.	Notes	taken	in	meetings,	receipts	and business	cards	you’ve	collected,	notices	from	your	kids’	schools,	and	all	the miscellaneous	inputs	that,	in	spite	of	yourself,	have	accumulated	in	all	the	weird little	pockets	and	places	in	your	purse,	briefcase,	smartphone	texts,	jacket,	and on	your	dressing-room	counter,	in	addition	to	what’s	shown	up	in	your	standard input	channels	like	your	e-mail	in-tray	and	social	media. 


 
Collect	Loose	Papers	and	Materials	
 Pull	out	all	miscellaneous	pieces	of	paper, business	cards,	receipts,	and	so	on	that	have	crept	into	the	crevices	of	your	desk, clothing,	and	accessories.	Put	it	all	in	your	in-tray	for	processing. 


 
Get	“In”	to	Empty	
 Review	any	meeting	notes	and	miscellaneous	scribbles	on notepaper	or	in	your	mobile	devices.	Decide	and	list	any	action	items,	projects, waiting-fors,	calendar	events,	and	someday/maybes,	as	appropriate.	File	any reference	notes	and	materials.	Get	the	“in”	areas	of	e-mails,	texts,	and	voice mails	to	zero.	Be	ruthless	with	yourself,	processing	all	notes	and	thoughts relative	to	interactions,	projects,	new	initiatives,	and	input	that	have	come	your way	since	your	last	download,	and	purging	those	not	needed. 


 
Empty	Your	Head	
 Put	into	writing	or	text	(in	appropriate	categories)	any	new projects,	action	items,	waiting-fors,	someday/maybes,	and	so	forth	that	you haven’t	yet	captured	and	clarified. 


Get	Current


You	need	to	“pull	up	the	rear	guard”	now	and	eliminate	outdated	reminders	in your	system	and	get	your	active	lists	up-to-date	and	complete.	Here	are	the	steps: 
Review	“Next	Actions”	Lists	
 Mark	off	completed	actions.	Review	for	reminders of	further	action	steps	to	record.	Many	times	I’ve	been	moving	so	fast	I	haven’t had	a	chance	to	mark	off	many	completed	items	on	my	list,	much	less	figure	out what	to	do	next.	This	is	the	time	to	do	that. 


 
Review	Previous	Calendar	Data	
 Review	the	past	two	to	three	weeks	of	calendar


entries	in	detail	for	remaining	or	emergent	action	items,	reference	information, and	so	on,	and	transfer	that	data	into	the	active	system.	Grab	every	“Oh!	That reminds	me	.	.	.	!”	with	its	associated	actions.	You	will	likely	notice	meetings and	events	that	you	attended,	which	trigger	thoughts	of	what	to	do	next	about	the content.	Be	able	to	archive	your	past	calendar	with	nothing	left	uncaptured. 


 
Review	Upcoming	Calendar	
 Look	at	further	calendar	entries	(long-	and	short-term).	Capture	actions	about	projects	and	preparations	required	for	upcoming events.	Your	calendar	is	one	of	the	best	checklists	to	review	regularly,	to	prevent last-minute	stress	and	trigger	creative	front-end	thinking
.*
	Upcoming	travel, conferences,	meetings,	holidays,	etc.	should	be	assessed	for	projects	to	add	to your	“Projects”	and	“Next	Actions”	lists	for	any	of	those	situations	that	are already	on	your	radar	but	not	yet	on	cruise	control. 


 
Review	“Waiting	For”	List	
 Any	needed	follow-up?	Need	to	send	an	e-mail	to get	a	status	on	it?	Need	to	add	an	item	to	someone’s	Agenda	list	to	update	when you’ll	talk	with	him	or	her?	Record	any	next	actions.	Check	off	any	already received. 


 
Review	“Projects”	(and	“Larger	Outcome”)	Lists	
 Evaluate	the	status	of projects,	goals,	and	outcomes,	one	by	one,	ensuring	that	at	least	one	current kick-start	action	for	each	is	in	your	system.	Browse	through	any	active	and relevant	project	plans,	support	materials,	and	any	other	work-in-progress material	to	trigger	new	actions,	completions,	waiting-fors,	etc. 


 
Review	Any	Relevant	Checklists	
 Is	there	anything	else	that	you	haven’t	done, that	you	need	or	want	to	do,	given	your	various	engagements,	interests,	and responsibilities? 


Get	Creative


This	methodology	is	not	simply	about	cleaning	up	and	getting	closure.	Those	are critical	factors,	to	be	sure,	to	utilize	for	clarity	and	focus.	Ultimately,	though,	the prime	driver	for	my	own	exploration	in	this	field	has	been	creating	the	space	to catalyze	and	access	new,	creative,	and	valuable	thinking	and	direction.	To	a great	extent,	that’s	actually	not	something	you	need	to	exert	a	lot	of	energy	to achieve,	if	you	have	gotten	this	far	in	implementing	this	methodology.	We	are


naturally	creative	beings,	invested	in	our	existence	to	live,	grow,	express,	and expand.	The	challenge	is	not	to	 
be
	creative—it’s	to	eliminate	the	barriers	to	the natural	flow	of	our	creative	energies.	Practically	speaking,	it’s	about	getting	your act	together,	letting	spontaneous	ideas	emerge,	capturing	them,	and	utilizing their	value.	If	you,	in	the	process	of	reading	and	applying	any	of	these techniques,	have	had	any	kind	of	“Aha!	That	reminds	me	.	.	.”	or	“Hmmm,	I think	I	might	want	to	.	.	.	,”	because	you	externalized	your	thinking	and	reflected on	it,	then	you’re	already	demonstrating	the	naturalness	of	this	process. 


 
“Point	of	view”	is	that	quintessentially	human	solution	to	information	overload,	an	intuitive
 
process	of	reducing	things	to	an	essential	relevant	and	manageable	minimum.	.	.	.	In	a	world	of
 
hyperabundant	content,	point	of	view	will	become	the	scarcest	of	resources. 


 
—Paul	Saffo


As	I	said,	there	may	not	be	anything	you	need	to	focus	on	at	this	point,	since probably	most	of	your	creative	thinking	will	have	already	shown	up	and	been integrated	in	this	process.	However,	there	are	a	couple	of	additional	triggers	that you	might	find	valuable	to	finish	off	this	process. 


 
Review	“Someday/Maybe”	List	
 Check	for	any	projects	that	may	have	become more	interesting	or	valuable	to	activate,	and	transfer	them	to	Projects.	Delete	any that	have	simply	stayed	around	much	longer	than	they	should,	as	the	world	and your	interest	have	changed	enough	to	take	them	off	even	this	informal	radar. 


Add	any	emerging	possibilities	that	you’ve	just	started	thinking	about. 


 
Be	Creative	and	Courageous	
 Are	there	any	new,	wonderful,	harebrained, creative,	thought-provoking,	risk-taking	ideas	you	can	capture	and	add	into	your system,	or	“external	brain”? 


This	review	process	is	common	sense,	but	few	of	us	do	it	as	well	or consistently	as	we	could,	which	means	as	regularly	as	we	should	to	keep	a	clear mind	and	a	sense	of	relaxed	control.	Granted,	its	scope	is	daunting,	especially	if you	haven’t	yet	structured	and	populated	your	personal	system	to	have reasonably	current	and	complete	data.	And	even	if	you	have	a	decent	center	of control,	given	the	pressures	and	demands	of	your	day-to-day	world,	seldom	is	it obvious	or	easy	to	make	this	kind	of	reflection	and	recalibration	event	happen. 


The	Right	Time	and	Place	for	the	Review


The	Weekly	Review	is	so	critical	that	it	behooves	you	to	establish	good	habits, environments,	and	tools	to	support	it.	Once	your	comfort	zone	has	been established	for	the	kind	of	relaxed	control	that	 
Getting	Things	Done
	is	all	about, you	won’t	have	to	worry	too	much	about	making	yourself	do	your	review—


you’ll	 
have
	to,	in	order	to	get	back	to	your	personal	standards	again. 


Until	then,	do	whatever	you	need	to,	once	a	week,	to	trick	yourself	into backing	away	from	the	daily	grind	for	a	couple	of	hours—not	to	zone	out,	but	to rise	up	at	least	to	the	horizon	of	all	your	projects	and	their	statuses,	and	to	catch up	with	everything	else	that	relates	to	what’s	pulling	on	your	attention. 


If	you	have	the	luxury	of	an	office	or	work	space	that	can	be	somewhat isolated	from	the	people	and	interactions	of	the	day,	and	if	you	have	anything resembling	a	typical	five-day	workweek,	I	recommend	that	you	block	out	two hours	early	in	the	afternoon	of	your	last	workday	for	the	review.	Three	factors make	this	an	ideal	time:


The	events	of	the	week	are	likely	to	be	still	fresh	enough	for	you	to	be	able to	do	a	complete	postmortem	(“Oh,	yeah,	I	need	to	make	sure	I	get	back	to her	about	.	.	.”). 


When	you	(invariably)	uncover	actions	that	require	reaching	people	at work,	you’ll	still	have	time	to	do	that	before	they	leave	for	the	weekend. 


It’s	great	to	clear	your	mental	decks	so	you	can	go	into	the	weekend	ready for	refreshment	and	recreation,	with	nothing	else	pulling	on	you unnecessarily. 


You	may	be	the	kind	of	person,	however,	who	doesn’t	have	normal


weekends.	I,	for	example,	often	have	as	much	to	do	on	those	days	as	I	do midweek.	But	I	do	have	the	luxury(?)	of	enduring	frequent	long	plane	trips, which	provide	an	ideal	opportunity	for	me	to	catch	up.	Many	people	have tailored	their	own	Weekly	Review	habits	to	fit	with	their	lifestyles,	ranging	from a	standard	time	at	their	favorite	coffeehouse	every	Saturday	morning	to	the	time on	Sunday	they	sat	in	the	rear	of	their	church	during	their	daughter’s	choir practice. 


 
Every	now	and	then	go	away	and	have	a	little	relaxation.	To	remain	constantly	at	work	will
 
diminish	your	judgment.	Go	some	distance	away,	because	work	will	be	in	perspective	and	a	lack


 
of	harmony	is	more	readily	seen. 


 
—Leonardo	da	Vinci


Whatever	your	lifestyle,	you	need	a	weekly	regrouping	ritual.	You	likely have	something	like	this	(or	close	to	it)	already.	If	so,	leverage	the	habit	by adding	into	it	a	higher-altitude	review	process. 


The	people	who	find	it	hardest	to	make	time	for	this	review	are	those	who have	constantly	on-demand	work	and	home	environments,	with	zero	built-in time	or	space	for	regrouping.	The	most	stressed	professionals	I	have	met	are	the ones	who	have	to	be	mission-critically	reactive	at	work	(e.g.,	high-level	equities traders	and	chiefs	of	staff)	and	then	go	home	to	a	couple	of	under-ten-year-old children	and	a	spouse	who	also	had	a	hard	day	at	work.	Some	of	them fortunately	have	a	one-hour	train	commute. 


If	you	recognize	yourself	in	that	picture,	your	greatest	challenge	will	be	to build	in	a	consistent	process	of	regrouping,	with	your	world	not	directly	in	your face.	You’ll	need	to	either	accept	the	requirement	of	an	after-hours	time	at	your desk	on	a	Friday	night	or	establish	a	relaxed	but	at-work	kind	of	location	and time	at	home. 


Your	best	thoughts	about	work	won’t	happen	while	you’re	at	work. 


 
Executive	Operational	Review	Time	
 I’ve	coached	many	executives	to	block	out two	hours	on	their	calendars	at	the	end	of	their	workweek.	For	them	the	biggest problem	is	how	to	balance	quality	thinking	and	catch-up	time	with	the	urgent demands	of	mission-critical	interactions.	This	is	a	tough	call.	The	most	senior and	savvy	of	them,	however,	know	the	value	of	sacrificing	the	seemingly	urgent for	the	truly	important,	and	they	create	their	islands	of	time	for	some	version	of this	process.	One	of	our	clients,	head	of	executive	development	for	one	of	the largest	companies	in	the	world,	suggested	that	building	in	quality	time	for review	and	regrouping	in	order	to	trust	one’s	intuitive	decision	making	is	both critical	and	sorely	lacking	in	the	higher	echelons	of	his	organization. 


 
Thinking	is	the	very	essence	of,	and	the	most	difficult	thing	to	do	in,	business	and	in	life.	Empire
 
builders	spend	hour-after-hour	on	mental	work	.	.	.	while	others	party.	If	you’re	not	consciously
 
aware	of	putting	forth	the	effort	to	exert	self-guided	integrated	thinking	.	.	.	then	you’re	giving	in


 
to	laziness	and	no	longer	control	your	life. 


 
—David	Kekich


Even	the	executives	who	have	integrated	a	consistent	reflective	space	for their	work,	though,	often	seem	to	give	short	shrift	to	the	more	mundane	review and	catch-up	process	at	the	Horizon	1	(Projects)	level.	Between	wall-to-wall meetings	and	ambling	around	your	koi	pond	with	a	glass	of	wine	at	sunset, there’s	got	to	be	a	slightly	elevated	level	of	review	required	for	operational control	and	focus.	If	you	think	you	have	all	your	open	loops	fully	identified, clarified,	assessed,	and	actionalized,	you’re	probably	kidding	yourself. 


The	“Bigger	Picture”	Reviews


Yes,	at	some	point	you	must	clarify	the	larger	outcomes,	the	long-term	goals,	the visions	and	principles	that	ultimately	drive,	test,	and	prioritize	your	decisions. 


What	are	your	key	goals	and	objectives	in	your	work?	What	should	you	have in	place	a	year	or	three	years	from	now?	How	is	your	career	going?	Is	this	the lifestyle	that	is	most	fulfilling	to	you?	Are	you	doing	what	you	really	want	or need	to	do,	from	a	deeper	and	longer-term	perspective? 


Trying	to	create	goals	before	you	have	confidence	that	you	can	keep	your	everyday	world	under control	will	often	undermine	your	motivation	and	energy	rather	than	enhance	them. 


The	explicit	focus	of	this	book	is	not	teasing	out	those	Horizon	3-to-5	levels. 


Urging	you	to	operate	from	a	higher	perspective	is,	however,	its	 
implicit
	purpose


—to	assist	you	in	making	your	total	life	expression	more	fulfilling	and	better aligned	with	the	bigger	game	you’re	all	about.	As	you	increase	the	speed	and agility	with	which	you	clear	the	Ground	and	Horizon	1	levels	of	your	life	and work,	be	sure	to	revisit	the	other	levels	you’re	engaged	in,	as	needed,	to	maintain a	truly	clear	head. 


How	often	you	ought	to	challenge	yourself	with	that	type	of	wide-ranging review	is	something	only	you	can	know.	The	principle	I	must	affirm	at	this juncture	is	this:


You	need	to	assess	your	life	and	work	at	the	appropriate	horizons,	making


the	appropriate	decisions,	at	the	appropriate	intervals,	in	order	to	really	come clean.	That’s	a	lifelong	invitation	and	obligation	to	yourself,	to	fulfill	whatever your	unfinished	destiny	or	intentionality	happens	to	be. 


 
In	order	to	understand	the	world,	one	has	to	turn	away	from	it	on	occasion. 


 
—Albert	Camus


Over	the	years	I	have	discovered,	through	my	own	experience	as	well	as being	intimately	involved	with	scores	of	people	in	their	day-to-day	worlds,	that getting	ultimately	grounded	and	in	control	of	the	mundane	aspects	of	life produces	a	rich	field	of	natural	inspiration	about	our	higher-level	stuff.	It	is because	of	our	deeper	drives	and	inclinations	that	we	have	embroiled	ourselves in	the	complexities	and	commitments	that	often	create	confusion	and	the	sense of	being	overwhelmed.	You	felt	a	profound	need	to	have	children;	now	you’ve got	them,	and	each	one	is	a	major	business	to	manage	for	at	least	two	decades. 


You’ve	felt	impelled	to	be	creative	and	produce	recognized	(and	monetized) value	in	the	world;	so	you’ve	built	a	business	or	committed	to	a	lofty professional	career,	and	you’re	now	buried	in	many	more	things	than	you	feel you	can	handle.	More	goals	may	not	be	necessary	for	you	now—you	need comfort	with	the	ones	you’ve	already	put	in	motion,	and	the	confidence	that	you can	execute	elegantly	on	any	new	ones. 


We	can	always	use	a	refreshed	view	of	our	visions,	values,	and	objectives, indeed.	But	in	my	experience	you’ll	resist	that	conversation	with	yourself	if	you don’t	think	you’re	handling	the	world	you’ve	already	created	for	yourself	very well!	How	long	does	it	take	to	change	a	goal	or	picture	of	what	you	want?	Not much	time,	if	any.	How	long	will	it	take	you	to	feel	confident	that	you	can deliver	to	yourself	the	outcomes	you	commit	to?	My	experience	is	that	it	will	be at	least	two	years	of	implementing	and	habituating	this	methodology	to	get	to that	level	of	self-confidence.	That’s	not	bad	news—it’s	just	news.	The	good news	is	that	getting	more	control	at	the	more	mundane	and	operational	levels	of your	life	and	work	is	immediately	available	as	you	start	to	apply	these	best practices,	and	it	will	likely	open	up	real	aspects	of	your	bigger	game	that	you wouldn’t	be	able	to	recognize	or	leverage	without	it. 


The	world	itself	is	never	overwhelmed	or	confused—only	we	are,	due	to	how	we	are	engaged


with	it. 


An	additional	aspect	of	this	future-thinking	dynamic	is	the	value	of	staying immensely	flexible	and	informal	about	goal	setting.	A	significant	change	in	this area	has	been	pioneered	in	the	software	world,	as	“agile	programming”	has become	the	norm	for	successful	start-ups.	Have	a	vision,	do	your	best	to	imagine what	it	might	look	like,	get	cranking	on	producing	something	as	a	viably marketable	first	iteration,	and	then	“dynamically	steer,”	maturing	both	your vision	as	well	as	how	to	implement	it,	based	on	real	feedback	from	your	real world.	The	message	is:	positive	future	thinking	is	critical	and	fabulous,	but	it’s most	effectively	manifested	when	it	is	tied	to	a	confidence	of	execution	in	the material	world,	with	responsiveness	and	course	correction	built	in. 


Which	brings	us	to	the	ultimate	point	and	challenge	of	all	this	personal capturing,	clarifying,	organizing,	and	reflecting	methodology:	It’s	9:22	a.m. 


Wednesday	morning—what	do	you	do? 


9


Engaging:	Making	the	Best	Action	Choices


Ultimately	and	always	you	must	trust	your	intuition.	There	are	many	things	you	can	do, however,	that	can	enhance	that	trust. 


WHEN	IT	COMES	
to	your	real-time,	plow-through,	get-it-done	workday,	how	do	you decide	what	to	do	at	any	given	point? 


As	I’ve	said,	my	simple	answer	is,	trust	your	heart.	Or	your	spirit.	Or,	if you’re	allergic	to	those	kinds	of	words,	try	these:	your	gut,	the	seat	of	your pants,	your	liver,	your	intuition—whatever	works	for	you	as	a	reference	point that	has	you	step	back	and	access	whatever	you	consider	the	source	of	your	inner wisdom.	If	you’ve	ever	made	thoughtful	versus	knee-jerk	and	reactive	choices, you’ll	know	what	I	mean. 


That	doesn’t	mean	you	throw	your	life	to	the	winds—unless,	of	course,	it does.	I	actually	went	down	that	route	myself	with	a	vengeance	at	one	point	in	my life,	and	I	can	attest	that	the	lessons	were	valuable,	if	not	necessarily	necessary. 
*


As	outlined	in	chapter	2	(pages	
52
–57)
,	I	have	found	three	priority frameworks	to	be	enormously	helpful	in	the	context	of	deciding	actions: The	four-criteria	model	for	choosing	actions	in	the	moment


The	threefold	model	for	evaluating	daily	work


The	six-level	model	for	reviewing	your	own	work


These	happen	to	be	shown	in	reverse	hierarchical	order—that	is,	the	reverse of	the	typical	strategic	top-down	perspective.	In	keeping	with	the	nature	of	the 
Getting	Things	Done
	methodology,	I	have	found	it	useful	to	once	again	work from	the	bottom	up,	meaning	I’ll	start	with	the	most	mundane	levels. 


The	Four-Criteria	Model	for	Choosing	Actions	in	the Moment


Remember	that	you	make	your	action	choices	based	on	the	following	four criteria,	in	order:


Context


Time	available


Energy	available


Priority


Let’s	examine	each	of	these	in	light	of	how	you	can	best	structure	your systems	and	behaviors	to	take	advantage	of	its	dynamics. 


Context


At	any	point	in	time,	the	first	thing	to	consider	is,	what	could	you	possibly	do, where	you	are,	with	the	tools	you	have?	Do	you	have	a	phone?	Do	you	have access	to	the	person	you	need	to	talk	with	face-to-face	about	three	agenda	items? 


Are	you	at	the	store	where	you	need	to	buy	something?	If	you	can’t	do	the	action because	you’re	not	in	the	appropriate	location	or	don’t	have	the	appropriate tools,	don’t	worry	about	it. 


As	I’ve	said,	it’s	often	helpful	to	organize	your	action	reminders	by	context


—Calls,	At	Home,	At	Computer,	Errands,	Agenda	for	Joe,	Agenda	for	Staff Meeting,	and	so	on.	Since	context	is	the	first	criterion	that	comes	into	play	in your	best	choice	of	actions,	context-sorted	lists	prevent	unnecessary reassessments	about	what	to	do.	If	you	have	a	bunch	of	things	to	do	on	one	to-do list,	but	you	actually	can’t	do	many	of	them	in	the	same	context,	you	force yourself	to	continually	keep	reconsidering	 
all
	of	them. 


 
You	have	freedom	when	you	are	easy	in	your	harness. 


 
—Robert	Frost


If	you	have	traveled	to	meet	a	client	at	her	office	and	on	arrival	discover	that


the	meeting	will	be	delayed	for	fifteen	minutes,	you	will	want	to	refer	to	your Calls	list	for	something	you	could	do	to	use	your	time	productively.	Your	action lists	should	fold	in	or	out,	based	on	what	you	could	possibly	do	at	any	time. 


A	second	real	benefit	accrues	from	organizing	action	reminders	by appropriate	context:	in	itself	that	forces	you	to	make	the	all-important determination	about	the	next	physical	action	on	your	stuff.	All	of	my	action	lists are	set	up	this	way,	so	I	have	to	decide	on	the	very	next	physical	action	before	I can	know	which	list	to	put	an	item	on.	(Is	this	something	that	requires	the computer?	A	phone?	Being	in	a	store?	Talking	in	real	time	with	my	wife?) People	who	give	themselves	a	Miscellaneous	action	list	(i.e.	one	not	specific	in context)	often	let	themselves	slide	in	the	next-action	decision,	too. 


I	frequently	encourage	people	I’m	working	with	to	structure	their	list categories	early	on	as	they’re	processing	their	in-trays,	because	that automatically	grounds	their	projects	in	the	real	things	that	need	to	get	done	to	get them	moving. 


Creative	Context	Sorting


As	you	begin	to	implement	this	methodology	consistently,	you	will	invariably find	inventive	ways	to	tailor	your	own	contextual	categories	to	fit	your	situation. 


Though	sorting	by	the	tool	or	physical	location	required	is	most	common,	there are	often	other	uniquely	useful	ways	to	filter	your	reminders. 


Before	I	go	on	a	long	trip,	I	will	create	“Before	Trip”	as	a	temporary	category into	which	I	will	move	everything	from	any	of	my	action	lists	that	 
must	
 be handled	before	I	leave.	That	becomes	the	only	list	I	need	to	review,	until	they’re all	done.	At	times	I	have	had	many	next	actions	that	required	me	to	be	in


“creative	writing”	mode;	though	those	actions	were	At	Computer,	they	required a	different	time	and	frame	of	mind	than	the	rest	of	the	things	I	needed	to	do	at my	laptop.	It	was	much	more	relaxing	and	productive	to	manage	my	focus	by sorting	those	onto	a	different,	Creative	Writing	action	list.	I	currently	divide	my computer-required	actions	into	those	that	don’t	require	an	Internet	connection, those	that	do,	and	those	that	are	just	surfing	(potentially	fun	or	interesting	things on	the	Web	to	explore). 


Over	the	years	I	have	seen	people	effectively	use	categories	such	as	“Brain Gone”	(for	simple	actions	requiring	no	mental	horsepower)	and	“Less	Than	5-Minute”	(for	getting	quick	“wins”).	At	times	people	feel	more	comfortable sorting	their	reminders	by	the	areas	of	focus	in	their	life	and	work—“Financial,” 


“Family,”	“Administrative,”	etc.	Recently	someone	shared	with	me	the	value	she found	in	categorizing	actions	based	upon	the	immediate	emotional	reward	for doing	them—service	to	others,	life	stability,	abundance	building,	etc.	There	is	no


“right”	way	to	structure	your	Next	Actions	lists—only	what	works	best	for	you, and	that	part	of	your	system	will	likely	change	as	your	life	does. 
*


If	you	are	a	novice	to	this	process,	these	details	and	distinctions	may	seem unnecessary	or	overwhelming.	Just	keep	in	mind	that	when	you	actually	identify all	the	next	actions	you	are	committed	to	taking	to	fulfill	your	commitments	in life	and	work,	you	will	likely	have	many	more	than	a	hundred.	To	truly implement	an	effective	“external	brain”	and	garner	its	amazing	results, managing	this	ground-floor	level	of	your	work	with	this	degree	of	sophistication will	pay	off	immeasurably. 


Time	Available


The	second	factor	in	choosing	an	action	is	how	much	time	you	have	before	you have	to	do	something	else.	If	your	meeting	is	starting	in	ten	minutes,	you’ll	most likely	select	a	different	action	to	do	right	now	than	you	would	if	the	next	couple of	hours	were	clear. 


Obviously,	it’s	good	to	know	how	much	time	you	have	at	hand	(hence	the value	of	accessible	calendar	and	timepiece).	A	total-life	action-reminder inventory	will	give	you	maximum	information	about	what	you	need	to	do,	and make	it	much	easier	to	match	your	actions	to	the	windows	you	have.	In	other words,	if	you	have	ten	minutes	before	that	next	meeting,	find	a	ten-minute	thing to	do.	If	your	lists	have	only	the	big	or	important	things	on	them,	no	item	listed may	be	possible	to	handle	in	a	ten-minute	period—especially	if	they	are	missing next-action	reminders.	If	you’re	going	to	have	to	do	those	shorter	action	things anyway,	the	most	productive	way	to	get	them	done	is	to	utilize	the	little	“weird time”	windows	that	occur	throughout	the	day. 


Additionally	there	are	many	times	when	you	have	been	head	down	in	some mentally	intensive	endeavor	for	a	couple	of	hours,	and	you’d	like	to	shift	your focus	and	get	some	easy	wins.	Then	it’s	great	to	“snack”	on	your	action	lists	for some	simple	things	to	complete	easily	and	quickly.	Change	a	restaurant reservation,	call	a	friend	and	wish	him	or	her	happy	birthday,	order	birdseed,	or just	walk	next	door	to	the	market	or	pharmacy	for	something	on	your	Errands list. 


Energy	Available


 
We	all	have	times	when	we	think	more	effectively,	and	times	when	we	should	not	be	thinking	at
 
all. 


 
—Daniel	Cohen


Although	you	can	increase	your	energy	level	at	times	by	changing	your	context and	redirecting	your	focus,	you	can	do	only	so	much.	The	tail	end	of	a	day	taken up	by	a	marathon	budget-planning	session	is	probably	not	the	best	time	to	call	a prospective	client,	start	drafting	a	performance-review	policy,	or	broach	a	new and	sensitive	topic	with	your	life	partner.	It	might	be	better	to	call	an	airline	to change	a	reservation,	process	some	expense	receipts,	step	out	on	your	patio	and watch	the	sunset,	skim	a	trade	journal,	or	just	clean	up	a	desk	drawer. 


Just	as	having	all	your	next-action	options	available	allows	you	to	take advantage	of	various	time	slots,	knowing	about	everything	you’re	going	to	need to	process	and	do	at	some	point	will	allow	you	to	match	productive	activity	with your	vitality	level. 


I	recommend	that	you	always	keep	an	inventory	of	things	that	need	to	be done	that	require	very	little	mental	or	creative	horsepower.	When	you’re	in	one of	those	low-energy	states,	do	those	things.	Casual	reading	(magazines,	articles, catalogs,	Web	surfing),	contact	data	that	needs	to	be	inputted,	file	purging, backing	up	your	computer,	even	just	watering	your	plants	and	filling	your	stapler


—these	are	some	of	the	myriad	things	that	you	need	or	want	to	deal	with sometime	anyway. 


There	is	no	reason	not	to	be	highly	productive,	even	when	you’re	not	in	top	form. 


This	is	one	of	the	best	reasons	for	having	very	clean	edges	to	your	personal management	system:	it	makes	it	easy	to	continue	doing	productive	activity	when you’re	not	in	top	form.	If	you’re	in	a	low-energy	mode	and	your	reading	material is	disorganized,	your	receipts	are	all	over	the	place,	your	filing	system	is	chaotic, and	your	in-tray	is	dysfunctional,	it	just	seems	like	too	much	work	to	find	and organize	the	tasks	at	hand,	so	you	simply	avoid	doing	anything	at	all	and	then you	feel	even	worse.	One	of	the	best	ways	to	increase	your	energy	is	to	close


some	of	your	loops.	So	always	be	sure	to	have	some	easy	loops	to	close,	right	at hand
.*


These	first	three	criteria	for	choosing	action	(context,	time,	and	energy) bespeak	the	need	for	a	complete	next-action	reminder	system.	Much	of	the	time you	won’t	be	in	a	mode	to	do	that	kind	of	coordinated	and	organized	thinking;	it needs	to	have	 
already	been	done
.	If	it	is,	you	can	operate	much	more	“in	your zone”	and	choose	from	delineated	actions	that	fit	the	situation. 


Priority


It	is	impossible	to	feel	good	about	your	choices	unless	you	are	clear	about	what	your	work	really is. 


Given	the	context	you’re	in	and	the	time	and	energy	you	have,	the	obvious	next criterion	for	action	choice	is	relative	priority:	“Out	of	all	my	remaining	options, what	is	the	most	important	thing	for	me	to	do?” 


“How	do	I	decide	my	priorities?”	is	a	question	I	frequently	hear	from	people. 


It	springs	from	their	experience	of	having	more	on	their	plate	to	do	than	they	can comfortably	handle.	They	know	that	some	hard	choices	have	to	be	made,	and that	some	things	may	not	get	done	at	all. 


At	the	end	of	the	day,	in	order	to	feel	good	about	what	you	didn’t	get	done, you	must	have	made	some	conscious	decisions	about	your	accountabilities, goals,	and	values.	That	process	invariably	includes	an	often-complex	interplay with	the	goals,	values,	and	directions	of	the	organization(s)	and	significant people	in	your	life,	and	with	the	importance	of	those	relationships	to	you.	This criterion	is	addressed	by	utilizing	the	six-horizon	commitment	model	I’ve described	and	will	elaborate	on	shortly. 


The	Threefold	Model	for	Evaluating	Daily	Work


Setting	priorities	assumes	that	some	things	will	be	more	important	than	others, but	important	relative	to	what?	In	this	context,	the	answer	is,	to	your	work—that is,	the	job(s)	you	have	accepted	from	yourself	and/or	from	others.	This	is	where the	next	two	frameworks	need	to	be	brought	to	bear	in	your	thinking.	They’re


about	defining	your	work.	Keep	in	mind	that	though	much	of	this	methodology will	be	within	the	arena	of	your	professional	focus,	I’m	using	“work”	in	the universal	sense,	to	mean	anything	you	have	a	commitment	to	make	happen, personally	as	well	as	professionally. 


These	days,	daily	work	activity	itself	presents	a	relatively	new	type	of challenge	to	most	professionals,	something	that	it’s	helpful	to	understand	as	we endeavor	to	build	the	most	productive	systems.	As	I	explained	earlier,	during	the course	of	the	workday,	at	any	point	in	time,	you’ll	be	engaged	in	one	of	three types	of	activities:


Doing	predefined	work


Doing	work	as	it	shows	up


Defining	your	work


You	may	be	doing	things	on	your	action	lists,	doing	things	as	they	come	up, or	processing	incoming	inputs	to	determine	what	work	needs	to	be	done	with them,	then	or	later,	from	your	lists. 


This	is	common	sense.	But	many	people	let	themselves	get	sucked	into	the second	activity—dealing	with	unplanned	and	unexpected	things	that	show	up—


much	too	easily,	and	let	the	other	two	slide,	to	their	detriment. 


It	is	often	easier	to	get	wrapped	up	in	the	urgent	demands	of	the	moment	than	to	deal	with	your in-tray,	e-mail,	and	the	rest	of	your	open	loops. 


Let’s	say	it’s	10:26	a.m.	Monday,	and	you’re	in	your	office.	You’ve	just ended	a	half-hour	unexpected	phone	call	with	a	prospective	client.	You	have three	pages	of	scribbled	notes	from	the	conversation.	There’s	a	meeting scheduled	with	your	staff	at	eleven,	about	half	an	hour	from	now.	You	were	out late	last	night	with	your	spouse’s	parents	and	are	still	a	little	frayed	around	the edges	(you	told	your	father-in-law	you’d	get	back	to	him	about	.	.	.	what?).	Your assistant	just	put	two	arriving	international	express	packages	on	your	desk,	and additionally	says	he	needs	to	talk	with	you	about	three	urgent	meeting	requests he	doesn’t	know	how	you	want	handled.	You	have	a	major	strategic-planning session	coming	up	in	two	days,	for	which	you	have	yet	to	formulate	your	ideas. 


The	oil	indicator	light	in	your	car	came	on	as	you	drove	to	work	this	morning. 


And	your	boss	hinted	as	you	passed	her	earlier	in	the	hall	that	she’d	like	your


thoughts	on	the	e-mail	she	sent	you	last	night,	before	this	afternoon’s	three o’clock	meeting. 


Are	your	systems	set	up	to	maximally	support	dealing	with	this	reality,	at 10:26	on	Monday	morning?	If	you’re	still	keeping	things	in	your	head,	and	if you’re	still	trying	to	capture	only	the	“critical”	stuff	in	your	lists,	I	suggest	that the	answer	is	no. 


I’ve	noticed	that	people	are	actually	more	comfortable	dealing	with	surprises and	crises	than	they	are	taking	control	of	processing,	organizing,	reviewing,	and assessing	that	part	of	their	work	that	is	 
not
	as	self-evident.	It’s	easy	to	get seduced	into	“busy”	and	“urgent”	mode,	especially	when	you	have	a	lot	of unprocessed	and	relatively	out-of-control	work	on	your	desk,	in	your	e-mail,	and on	your	mind. 


 
Success	is	learning	to	deal	with	Plan	B. 


 
—Unknown


In	fact,	much	of	our	life	and	work	 
does	
 just	show	up	in	the	moment,	and	it often	becomes	the	priority	when	it	does.	It’s	indeed	true	for	most	professionals (and	parents	of	young	children!)	that	the	nature	of	their	job	requires	them	to	be instantly	available	to	handle	new	work	as	it	appears	in	many	forms.	For	instance, you	need	to	pay	attention	to	your	boss	when	he	shows	up	and	wants	a	few minutes	of	your	time.	You	get	a	request	from	a	senior	executive	that	suddenly takes	precedence	over	anything	else	you	thought	you	needed	to	do	today.	You find	out	about	a	serious	problem	fulfilling	a	major	customer’s	order,	and	you have	to	take	care	of	it	right	away.	Or	your	baby	develops	a	serious	cough. 


These	are	all	understandable	judgment	calls.	But	the	angst	begins	to	mount when	the	other	actions	on	your	lists	are	not	reviewed	and	renegotiated	by	you	or between	you	and	everyone	else.	The	constant	sacrifices	of	not	doing	the	work you	have	defined	on	your	lists	can	be	tolerated	only	if	you	 
know
	what	you’re	not doing.	That	requires	regular	processing	of	your	in-tray	(defining	your	work)	and consistent	review	of	complete	lists	of	all	your	predetermined	work. 


There	are	no	interruptions—there	are	only	mismanaged	inputs. 


If	choosing	to	do	work	that	just	showed	up	instead	of	doing	work	you predefined	is	a	conscious	choice	based	on	your	best	call,	that’s	playing	the	game the	most	effective	way	you	can.	Most	people,	however,	have	major improvements	to	make	in	how	they	clarify,	manage,	and	renegotiate	their	total inventory	of	projects	and	actions.	If	you	let	yourself	get	caught	up	in	the	urgency of	the	moment,	without	feeling	comfortable	about	what	you’re	 
not
	dealing	with, the	result	is	frustration	and	anxiety.	Too	often	the	stress	and	reduced effectiveness	are	blamed	on	the	surprises.	If	you	know	what	you’re	doing	and what	you’re	 
not
	doing,	surprises	are	just	another	opportunity	to	be	flexible	and creative,	and	to	excel. 


Another	reason	people	consider	unexpected	demands	or	requests	negative	is because	they	don’t	trust	their	own	system	and	behaviors	to	be	able	to	put	a


“bookmark”	on	any	resulting	action	that	needs	to	be	taken,	or	on	the	work they’re	doing	at	the	moment.	They	know	they	need	do	something	about	the	new work	that	just	showed	up,	but	they	don’t	trust	that	a	simple	note	in	their	own	in-tray	will	ensure	it	is	handled	with	proper	timing.	So	they	stop	their	previous work	and	immediately	go	do	what	was	just	requested	or	required	of	them, complaining	about	the	interruption	that	just	disturbed	their	life.	There	are	no interruptions,	really—there	are	simply	mismanaged	occurrences. 


In	addition,	when	the	in-tray	and	the	action	lists	get	ignored	for	too	long, random	things	lying	in	them	tend	to	surface	as	emergencies	later	on,	adding more	unexpected	work-as-it-shows-up	to	fuel	the	fire. 


Many	people	use	the	inevitability	of	an	almost	infinite	stream	of	immediately evident	things	to	do	as	a	way	to	avoid	the	responsibilities	of	defining	their	work and	managing	their	total	inventory.	It’s	easy	to	get	lured	into	not-quite-so-critical stuff	that	is	right	at	hand,	especially	if	your	in-tray	and	your	personal organization	are	out	of	control.	Too	often	“managing	by	wandering	around”	is an	excuse	for	getting	away	from	amorphous	piles	of	stuff. 


This	is	where	the	need	for	the	 
Getting	Things	Done
	methodology	really shows	up.	Most	people	did	not	grow	up	in	a	world	where	defining	the	edges	of work	and	managing	huge	numbers	of	open	loops	were	required.	But	when you’ve	developed	the	skill	and	habits	of	processing	input	rapidly	into	a rigorously	defined	system,	it	becomes	much	easier	to	trust	your	judgment	calls about	the	dance	of	what	to	do,	what	to	stop	doing,	and	what	to	do	instead. 


The	Moment-To-Moment	Balancing	Act


At	a	master	level,	you	can	shift	like	lightning	from	one	foot	to	the	other	and	back again.	While	you’re	processing	your	in-tray,	for	example,	your	assistant	enters	to tell	you	about	a	situation	that	needs	immediate	attention.	No	sweat—your	in-tray and	e-mail	are	still	there,	with	everything	still	to	be	processed	in	a	coordinated view,	ready	to	be	picked	up	again	when	you	can	get	back	to	it.	While	you’re	on hold	on	the	phone,	you	can	be	reviewing	your	action	lists	and	getting	a	sense	of what	you’re	going	to	do	when	the	call	is	done.	When	your	infant	is	crawling around	in	the	living	room	and	you’re	highly	attuned	to	anything	unusual	you might	have	to	respond	to,	you	can	be	handling	simple	Web-surfing	research	on your	At	Computer	list.	While	you	wait	for	a	meeting	to	start,	you	can	work	down the	Read/Review	stack	you’ve	brought	with	you.	And	when	the	conversation you	weren’t	expecting	with	your	boss	shrinks	the	time	you	have	before	your	next meeting	to	twelve	minutes,	you	can	easily	find	a	way	to	use	that	window	to	good advantage. 


 
To	ignore	the	unexpected	(even	if	it	were	possible)	would	be	to	live	without	opportunity,
 
spontaneity,	and	the	rich	moments	of	which	“life”	is	made. 


 
—Stephen	Covey


You	can	only	do	one	of	these	work	activities	at	a	time.	If	you	stop	to	talk	to someone	in	his	or	her	office,	you’re	not	working	off	your	lists	or	processing incoming	stuff.	The	challenge	is	to	feel	confident	about	what	you	have	decided to	do. 


So	how	do	you	decide?	This	again	will	involve	your	intuitive	judgments—


how	important	is	the	unexpected	work,	against	all	the	rest?	How	long	can	you	let your	in-tray	go	unprocessed	and	all	your	stuff	unreviewed	and	trust	that	you’re making	good	decisions	about	what	to	do? 


Do	unexpected	work	as	it	shows	up,	not	because	it	is	the	path	of	least	resistance,	but	because	it	is the	thing	you	need	to	do	vis-à-vis	all	the	rest. 


People	often	complain	about	the	interruptions	that	prevent	them	from	doing their	work.	But	interruptions	are	unavoidable	in	life.	When	you	become	elegant at	dispatching	what’s	coming	in	and	are	organized	enough	to	take	advantage	of


“weird	time”	windows	that	show	up,	you	can	switch	between	one	task	and	the other	rapidly.	You	can	be	processing	e-mails	while	you’re	on	hold	on	a conference	call.	Research	has	now	proven	that	you	can’t	actually	multitask,	i.e. 


put	conscious	focused	attention	on	more	than	one	thing	at	a	time;	and	if	you	are trying	to,	it	denigrates	your	performance	considerably.	If	your	head	is	your	only system	for	placeholding,	you	will	experience	an	attempted	multitasking internally,	which	is	psychologically	impossible	and	the	source	of	much	stress	for many	people.	If	you	have	established	practices	for	parking	still-incomplete	items midstream,	however,	your	focus	can	shift	cleanly	from	one	to	the	next	and	back again,	with	the	precision	of	a	martial	artist	who	appears	to	fight	four	people	at once,	but	who	in	reality	is	simply	rapidly	shifting	attention. 


Nonetheless,	even	if	you	are	a	“black	belt”	in	capturing	and	bookmarking what’s	going	on,	you	must	still	learn	to	make	quick	and	appropriate	choices among	those	many	tasks	to	keep	a	healthy	balance	of	your	workflow.	Your choices	will	still	have	to	be	calibrated	against	your	own	clarity	about	the	nature and	goals	of	your	work. 


Your	ability	to	deal	with	surprise	is	your	competitive	edge,	and	a	key	to sanity	and	sustainability	in	your	lifestyle.	But	at	a	certain	point,	if	you’re	not catching	up	and	getting	things	under	control,	staying	busy	with	only	the	work	at hand	will	undermine	your	effectiveness.	And	ultimately,	in	order	to	know whether	you	should	stop	what	you’re	doing	and	do	something	else,	you’ll	need to	have	a	good	sense	of	all	your	roles	and	how	they	fit	together	in	a	larger context.	The	only	way	you	can	have	that	is	to	evaluate	your	life	and	work appropriately	at	multiple	horizons. 


The	Six-Level	Model	for	Reviewing	Your	Own	Work


The	six	levels	of	work	as	we	saw	in	chapter	2	(pages	
54
–
56)
	may	be	thought	of in	terms	of	altitude,	as	in	the	floors	of	a	building:


Horizon	5:	Life


Horizon	4:	Long-term	visions


Horizon	3:	One-	to	two-year	goals


Horizon	2:	Areas	of	focus	and	accountability


Horizon	1:	Current	projects


Ground:	Current	actions


It	makes	sense	that	each	of	these	levels	should	enhance	and	align	with	the ones	above	it.	In	other	words,	your	priorities	will	sit	in	a	hierarchy	from	the	top down.	Ultimately,	if	the	phone	call	you’re	supposed	to	make	clashes	with	your life	purpose	or	values,	to	be	in	sync	with	yourself	you	won’t	make	it.	If	your	job structure	doesn’t	match	up	with	where	you	need	to	be	a	year	from	now,	you should	rethink	how	you’ve	framed	your	areas	of	focus	and	roles,	if	you	want	to get	where	you’re	going	most	efficiently. 


Let’s	look	at	that	first	example	from	the	bottom	up.	The	phone	call	you	need to	make	(action)	is	about	the	deal	you’re	working	on	(project),	which	would increase	sales	(accountability).	This	particular	deal	would	give	you	the opportunity	to	move	up	in	the	sales	force	(job	goal)	because	of	the	new	market your	company	wants	to	penetrate	(organization	vision).	And	that	would	get	you closer	to	the	way	you	want	to	be	living,	both	financially	and	professionally	(life). 


 
Your	work	is	to	discover	your	work	and	then	with	all	your	heart	to	give	yourself	to	it. 


 
—Buddha


Or,	from	the	other	direction,	you’ve	decided	that	you	want	to	be	your	own boss	and	unlock	some	of	your	unique	assets	and	talents	in	a	particular	area	that resonates	with	you	(life).	So	you	create	a	business	for	yourself	(vision),	with some	short-term	key	operational	objectives	(job	goal).	That	gives	you	some critical	roles	you	need	to	fulfill	to	get	it	rolling	(accountability),	with	some immediate	outcomes	to	achieve	(projects).	On	each	of	those	projects	you’ll	have things	you	need	to	do,	as	soon	as	you	can	do	them	(next	actions). 


The	healthiest	approach	for	relaxed	control	and	inspired	productivity	is	to manage	all	the	levels	in	a	balanced	fashion.	At	any	of	those	levels,	it’s	critical	to identify	all	the	open	loops,	all	the	incompletions,	and	all	the	commitments	that you	have	right	now,	as	best	you	can.	They	all	came,	consciously	or	not,	from	the urges,	pulls,	and	pushes	from	these	multiple	levels	within	you.	Without	an acceptance	and	an	objective	assessment	of	what’s	true	in	the	present,	and	feeling confident	you	can	manage	what	you’ve	created,	it’s	always	difficult	to	cast	off for	new	shores.	What’s	in	your	e-mail?	What	are	the	projects	you	need	to	start	or complete	with	your	kids?	What	do	you	need	to	handle	in	your	current	roles	at	the office?	What’s	pushing	you	to	change	or	attracting	you	to	create	in	the	next months	or	years?	These	are	all	open	loops	in	your	head,	though	often	it	takes


deeper	and	more	introspective	processes	to	identify	the	bigger	goals	and	subtler inclinations. 


 
The	best	place	to	succeed	is	where	you	are	with	what	you	have. 


 
—Charles	Schwab


There	is	magic	in	being	in	the	present	in	your	life.	I’m	always	amazed	at	the power	of	clear	observation	simply	about	what’s	going	on,	what’s	true.	Finding out	the	exact	details	of	your	personal	finances,	clarifying	the	historical	data about	the	company	you’re	buying,	or	getting	the	facts	about	who	really	said	what to	whom	in	an	interpersonal	conflict	can	be	constructive,	if	not	absolutely necessary	and	downright	healing. 


Getting	things	done,	and	feeling	good	about	it,	means	being	willing	to recognize,	acknowledge,	and	appropriately	engage	with	all	the	things	within	the ecosystem	of	your	consciousness.	Mastering	the	art	of	stress-free	productivity requires	it. 


Working	from	the	Bottom	Up


You’re	never	lacking	in	opportunities	to	clarify	your	priorities	at	any	level.	Pay	attention	to which	horizon	is	calling	you. 


In	order	to	create	productive	alignment	in	your	life,	you	could	quite	reasonably start	with	a	clarification	from	the	top	down.	Decide	why	you’re	on	the	planet. 


Figure	out	what	kind	of	life	and	work	and	lifestyle	would	best	allow	you	to fulfill	that	contract.	What	kind	of	job	and	personal	relationships	would	support that	direction?	What	key	things	would	you	need	to	put	in	place	and	make	happen right	now,	and	what	could	you	do	physically	as	soon	as	possible	to	kick-start each	of	those? 


In	truth,	you	can	approach	your	priorities	from	any	level,	at	any	time.	I always	have	something	that	I	could	do	constructively	to	enhance	my	awareness and	focus	on	each	level.	I’m	never	lacking	in	more	visions	to	elaborate,	goals	to reassess,	projects	to	identify	or	create,	or	actions	to	decide	on.	The	trick	is	to learn	to	pay	attention	to	the	ones	you	need	to,	at	the	appropriate	time,	to	keep


you	clear	and	present	with	whatever	you’re	doing. 


Trying	to	manage	from	the	top	down	when	the	bottom	is	out	of	control	may	be	the	 
least
 effective	approach. 


Because	everything	will	ultimately	be	driven	by	the	priorities	of	the	level above	it,	any	formulation	of	your	priorities	would	obviously	most	efficiently begin	at	the	top.	For	example,	if	you	spend	time	prioritizing	your	work	and	then later	discover	that	it’s	not	the	work	you	think	you	ought	to	be	doing,	you	may have	wasted	time	and	energy	that	could	have	been	better	spent	defining	the	next job	you	really	want.	The	problem	is	that	without	a	sense	of	control	at	the implementation	level	(current	projects	and	actions),	and	without	trust	in	your own	ability	to	manage	those	levels	appropriately,	trying	to	manage	yourself	from the	top	down	often	creates	frustration. 


From	a	practical	perspective,	I	suggest	going	from	the	bottom	up	instead. 


I’ve	coached	people	from	both	directions,	and	in	terms	of	lasting	value,	I	can honestly	say	that	getting	someone	in	control	of	the	details	of	his	or	her	current physical	world,	and	then	elevating	the	focus	from	there,	has	never	missed. 


Handle	what	has	your	attention	and	you’ll	then	discover	what	 
really
	has	your	attention. 


The	primary	reason	to	work	from	this	bottom-up	direction	is	that	it	clears your	inner	decks	to	begin	with,	allowing	your	creative	attention	to	focus	on	the more	meaningful	and	elusive	visions	that	you	may	need	to	challenge	yourself	to identify.	Also,	this	particular	method	has	a	high	degree	of	flexibility	and freedom,	and	it	includes	a	thinking	and	organizing	practice	that	is	universal	and effective	no	matter	what	it’s	focused	on.	That	makes	it	worth	learning,	no	matter what	the	actual	content	you’re	dealing	with	at	the	moment	may	be.	Change	your mind	and	this	process	will	help	you	adjust	with	maximum	speed.	It	takes	no	time to	reset	a	vision	or	goal,	but	learning	to	objectify	and	execute	on	it	in	a streamlined,	coordinated,	and	stress-free	way	is	an	art	that	must	be	learned	and practiced.	Knowing	you	have	that	ability	will	give	you	permission	to	play	a bigger	game.	It’s	truly	empowering. 


I	have	learned	over	the	years	that	the	most	important	thing	to	deal	with	is whatever	is	most	on	your	mind.	The	fact	that	you	think	it	shouldn’t	be	on	your


mind	is	irrelevant.	It’s	there,	and	it’s	there	for	a	reason.	“Buy	cat	food”	may certainly	not	rank	high	on	some	theoretical	prioritizing	inventory,	but	if	that’s what’s	pulling	on	you	the	most,	in	the	moment,	then	handling	it	in	some	way would	be	Job	One.	Once	you	handle	what	has	your	attention,	it	frees	you	up	to notice	what	 
really
	has	your	attention.	Which,	when	you	handle	that,	will	allow you	to	see	what	 
really
	has	your	attention,	and	so	on.	Almost	without	exception the	executives	I	have	worked	with	are	most	plagued	by	the	management	of	the nitty-gritty	of	their	workaday	world—e-mails,	meetings,	travel,	projects	going off	the	rails,	etc.	When	they	begin	to	get	all	that	under	control,	their	attention invariably	turns	to	areas	of	focus	and	interest	from	a	higher	perspective—family, career,	and	quality-of-life	stuff.	So	don’t	worry	about	what	horizon	or	what content	of	your	life	is	the	highest	priority	to	deal	with—deal	with	what’s	present. 


When	you	do,	you	will	more	effectively	uncover	and	address	what’s	really	true and	meaningful	for	you. 
*


While	Horizon	5	(purpose	and	principles)	is	obviously	the	most	important context	within	which	to	set	priorities,	experience	has	shown	me	that	when	we understand	and	implement	 
all
	the	levels	of	work	in	which	we	are	engaged, especially	the	Ground	and	Horizon	1	levels,	we	gain	greater	freedom	and resources	to	do	the	bigger	work	that	we’re	all	about.	If	your	boat	is	sinking,	you really	don’t	care	in	which	direction	it’s	pointed!	Although	a	bottom-up	approach is	not	a	conceptual	priority,	from	a	practical	perspective	it’s	a	critical	factor	in achieving	a	balanced,	productive,	and	comfortable	life. 


 
Ground	
 The	first	thing	to	do	is	make	sure	your	action	lists	are	complete,	which in	itself	can	be	quite	a	task.	Those	who	focus	on	gathering	and	objectifying	all	of those	items	discover	that	there	are	many	(often	of	some	importance)	they’ve forgotten,	misplaced,	or	just	not	recognized. 


Aside	from	your	calendar,	if	you	don’t	have	at	least	fifty	next	actions	and waiting-fors,	including	all	the	agendas	for	people	and	meetings,	I	would	be skeptical	about	whether	you	really	had	 
all
	of	them.	If	you’ve	followed	through rigorously	with	the	steps	and	suggestions	in	part	2,	though,	you	may	have	them already.	If	not,	and	you	do	want	to	get	this	level	up-to-date,	set	aside	some	time to	work	through	chapters	4	through	6	in	real	implementation	mode. 


When	you’ve	finished	getting	this	level	of	control	current,	you’ll automatically	have	a	more	grounded	sense	of	immediate	priorities,	which	is almost	impossible	to	achieve	otherwise. 


 
Horizon	1	
 Finalize	your	Projects	list.	Does	it	truly	capture	all	the	commitments you	have	that	will	require	more	than	one	action	to	get	done?	That	will	define	the boundaries	of	the	kind	of	week-to-	week	operational	world	you’re	in	and	allow you	to	relax	your	thinking	for	longer	intervals. 


If	you	make	a	complete	list	of	all	of	the	things	you	want	to	have	happen	in your	life	and	work	at	this	level,	you’ll	discover	that	there	are	actions	you	need	to do	that	you	didn’t	realize.	Just	creating	this	objective	inventory	will	give	you	a firmer	basis	on	which	to	make	decisions	about	what	to	do	when	you	have discretionary	time.	Invariably	when	people	get	their	Projects	list	up-to-date,	they discover	there	are	several	things	that	could	be	done	readily	to	move	things	they care	about	forward. 


Taking	the	inventory	of	your	current	work	at	all	levels	will	automatically	produce	greater	focus, alignment,	and	sense	of	priorities. 


Very	few	people	have	this	clear	data	defined	and	available	to	themselves	in some	objective	form.	Before	any	discussion	about	what	should	be	done	this afternoon	can	take	place,	this	information	must	be	at	hand. 


Again,	if	you’ve	been	putting	into	practice	the	methodology	of	 
Getting
 
Things	Done
,	your	Projects	list	will	be	where	it	needs	to	be.	For	most	of	the people	we	coach,	it	takes	ten	to	fifteen	hours	of	capturing,	clarifying,	and organizing	to	get	to	the	point	of	trusting	the	thoroughness	of	their	inventory. 


And	to	achieve	the	most	pristine	level	of	“mind	like	water”	(nothing	on	your mind	except	what’s	present	in	the	moment),	Horizon	1	is	the	level	that	seems	to incorporate	some	of	the	most	interesting	challenges.	For	all	of	us,	there	are situations	and	circumstances	that	emerge	that	bother,	interest,	or	distract	us,	but with	which	it	is	not	immediately	obvious	or	evident	how	to	engage.	Your	son has	a	problem	with	his	math	teacher;	you	are	frustrated	with	how	long	it	takes	to implement	a	procedure	in	your	company;	you	have	a	concern	about	the	person running	your	fund-raising	committee;	you	keep	thinking	you	ought	to	be rekindling	your	interest	in	painting;	etc.	Quieting	that	subtle	noise	requires identifying	objective	outcomes	for	each	of	those	(a	project),	with	accompanying next	actions	placed	into	your	trusted	system.	Playing	consistently	at	this	level	of the	stress-free	productivity	game	is	a	hallmark	of	its	mastery. 


 
Horizon	2	
 This	is	the	level	of	“current	job	responsibilities”	and	“areas	of	my	life


to	maintain	at	an	appropriate	standard.”	What	are	the	hats	you	wear,	the	roles you	play?	Professionally,	this	would	relate	to	your	current	position	and	work. 


Personally,	it	would	include	the	areas	of	responsibility	you’ve	taken	on	in	your family,	in	your	community,	and	of	course	with	yourself	as	a	functioning	person. 


If	you’re	not	totally	sure	what	your	job	is,	it	will	always	feel	overwhelming. 


You	may	have	some	of	these	roles	already	defined	and	written	out.	If	you’ve recently	taken	a	new	position	and	there’s	an	agreement	or	contract	about	your areas	of	accountability,	that	would	certainly	be	a	good	start.	If	you’ve	done	any kind	of	personal	goal-setting	and	values-clarifying	exercises	in	the	past	and	still have	any	materials	you	created	then,	add	those	to	the	mix. 


Next	I	recommend	that	you	make	and	keep	a	list	called	“Areas	of	Focus.” 


You	might	like	to	separate	this	into	“Professional”	and	“Personal”	sublists,	in which	case	you’ll	want	to	use	them	both	equally	for	a	consistent	review.	This	is one	of	the	most	useful	checklists	you	can	create	for	your	own	self-management. 


It	won’t	require	the	kind	of	once-a-week	recalibration	that	the	Projects	list	will; more	likely	it	will	have	meaning	on	a	longer	recursion	cycle.	Depending	on	the speed	of	change	in	some	of	the	more	important	areas	of	your	life	and	work,	this should	be	used	as	a	trigger	for	potential	new	projects	every	one	to	three	months. 


You	probably	have	somewhere	between	four	and	seven	key	areas	of


responsibility	in	your	work,	and	a	similar	number	personally.	Your	job	may include	things	like	staff	development,	systems	design,	long-range	planning, administrative	support,	customer	service,	and	marketing;	or	accountabilities	for facilities,	fulfillment,	quality	control,	asset	management,	and	so	on.	If	you’re your	own	business,	your	attention	will	be	on	many	more	areas	than	if	you	have	a very	specialized	function	in	a	large	organization.	The	rest	of	your	life	might entail	areas	of	focus	such	as	parenting,	partnering,	spiritual	community,	health, volunteering,	home	management,	personal	finances,	self-development,	creative expression,	and	so	forth.	And	each	one	of	those	specific	areas	could	be	broken down	into	useful	subcategories.	“Parenting”	could	generate	separate	checklists for	each	of	your	children.	“Marketing”	can	include	“Program	Design,” 


“Research,”	“Social	Media,”	etc. 


The	operational	purpose	of	the	Areas	of	Focus	list	is	to	ensure	that	you	have all	your	projects	and	next	actions	defined,	so	you	can	manage	your responsibilities	appropriately.	If	you	were	to	create	an	accounting	of	those	and


evaluate	them	objectively,	in	terms	of	what	you’re	doing	and	should	be	doing, you’ll	undoubtedly	uncover	projects	you	need	to	add	to	your	Projects	list.	You may,	in	reviewing	the	list,	decide	that	some	areas	are	just	fine	and	are	being taken	care	of.	Then	again,	you	may	realize	that	something	has	been	bugging	or intriguing	you	in	one	area	and	that	a	project	should	be	created	to	deal	with	it. 


“Areas	of	Focus”	is	really	just	a	more	abstract	and	refined	version	of	the Triggers	list	we	covered	earlier. 


Every	person	I	have	worked	with	in	the	past	thirty	years	has	uncovered	at least	two	or	three	important	gaps	at	this	level	of	discussion.	For	instance,	a common	role	a	manager	or	executive	has	is	“staff.”	Upon	reflection,	most	realize they	need	to	add	a	project	or	two	in	that	area,	such	as	“Upgrade	support	office procedures,”	“Research	hiring	a	chief	of	staff,”	or	“Upgrade	performance	review processes.”	Or	when	objectifying	the	accountabilities	for	aspects	of	one’s personal	life,	often	projects	like	“Research	yoga	classes”	and	“Set	up	summer activities	for	the	kids”	show	up. 


A	discussion	of	priorities	would	have	to	incorporate	all	of	these	levels	of current	agreements	between	you	and	others.	If	you	get	this	professional	“job description”	checklist	in	play	and	keep	it	current,	you’ll	probably	be	more relaxed	and	in	control	than	most	people	in	our	culture.	Few	people	are	doing only	what	they	were	hired	to	do,	and	keeping	clear	about	new	and	changing expectations	needs	to	be	a	constantly	updated	conversation.	Equally	few	people maintain	a	consistent	and	objective	overview	of	all	the	relevant	areas	of	their balanced	life—family,	fun,	or	finances—with	a	mind	to	execute	on	the	gaps. 


Driving	your	thinking	and	systems	from	these	levels	will	go	a	long	way	toward moving	you	from	hope	to	trust	as	you	make	the	necessary	on-the-run	choices about	what	to	do. 


When	you’re	not	sure	where	you’re	going	or	what’s	really	important	to	you,	you’ll	never	know when	enough	is	enough. 


 
Horizons	3–5	
 Whereas	the	three	lower	levels	have	mostly	to	do	with	the	current state	of	things—your	actions,	projects,	and	areas	of	responsibility—from Horizon	3	up	the	factors	of	the	future	and	your	direction	and	intentions	are primary.	There	is	still	an	inventory	to	take	at	these	plateaus	(especially	at	the	top level,	purpose	and	principles,	which	represents	an	ongoing	criterion	for monitoring	and	correcting	activities	and	behaviors),	but	it’s	more	about	“What	is


true	right	now	about	where	I’ve	decided	I’m	going	and	how	I’m	going	to	get there?”	This	can	range	from	one-year	goals	in	your	job	(Horizon	3)	to	a	three-year	vision	for	your	career	and	personal	net	worth	(Horizon	4)	to	intuiting	your life	purpose	and	how	to	maximize	its	expression	(Horizon	5). 


I’m	blending	the	three	uppermost	levels	together	here	because	situations often	can’t	easily	be	pigeonholed	into	one	or	another	of	these	categories.	Also, since	 
Getting	Things	Done
	is	more	about	the	art	of	implementation	and execution	than	about	how	to	define	goals	and	vision,	I	won’t	offer	a	rigorous examination	here.	But	by	its	very	nature	this	investigation	can	broach	potentially deep	and	complex	arenas,	which	could	include	business	strategy,	organization development,	career	planning,	and	life	direction	and	values. 


 
Pick	battles	big	enough	to	matter,	small	enough	to	win. 


 
—Jonathan	Kozol


For	our	purposes,	the	focus	is	on	capturing	what	motivators	exist	for	you	in current	reality	that	determine	the	inventory	of	what	your	work	actually	is,	right now	(some	of	which	may	be	stemming	from	your	higher-level	commitments	and intentions).	Whether	your	directions	and	goals	should	be	changed	or	clarified—


based	on	deeper	thinking,	analysis,	and	intuition—could	be	another	discussion. 


Even	so,	there	are	probably	some	things	you	can	identify	right	now	that	can	help you	get	current	in	your	own	thinking	about	your	work	and	what’s	important	in	it. 


If	you	were	to	intuitively	frame	a	picture	of	what	you	think	you	might	be doing	twelve	to	eighteen	months	from	now,	or	what	the	nature	of	your	job	will look	like	at	that	point,	what	would	that	trigger?	At	this	level,	which	is	subtler, there	may	be	things	personally	you	need	to	let	go	of,	and	people	and	systems	that may	need	to	be	developed	to	allow	the	transition.	And	as	the	job	itself	is	a moving	target,	given	the	shifting	sands	of	the	professional	world	these	days, there	may	need	to	be	projects	defined	to	ensure	viability	of	the	outputs	in	your area. 


In	the	personal	arena,	this	is	where	you	would	want	to	consider	things	like:


“My	career	is	going	to	stagnate	unless	I	assert	my	own	goals	more	specifically	to my	boss	[or	my	boss’s	boss].”	Or	“What	new	things	are	my	children	going	to	be doing	in	the	next	couple	of	years,	and	what	do	I	need	to	do	differently	because	of that?”	Or	“What	preparation	do	I	need	to	ensure	that	I	can	deal	with	this	health


problem	we’ve	just	uncovered?” 


Through	a	longer	scope	you	might	assess:	How	is	your	career	going?	How	is your	personal	life	moving	along?	What	is	your	organization	doing	relative	to changes	in	the	environment,	and	what	impact	does	that	have	on	you?	These	are the	one-to-five-year-horizon	questions	that,	when	I	ask	them,	elicit	different	and important	kinds	of	answers	from	everyone. 


I	coached	someone	in	a	large	international	bank	who,	after	a	few	months	of implementing	this	methodology	and	getting	control	of	his	day-to-day	inventory of	work,	decided	the	time	was	right	to	invest	in	his	own	start-up	high-tech	firm. 


The	thought	had	been	too	intimidating	for	him	to	address	initially,	but	working from	the	Ground	level	up	made	it	much	more	accessible	and	a	natural consequence	of	thinking	at	this	horizon.	I	recently	heard	of	his	phenomenal success	in	the	new	endeavor. 


If	you’re	involved	in	anything	that	has	a	future	of	longer	than	a	year (marriage,	kids,	career,	a	company,	an	art	form,	a	lifelong	passion),	you	would do	well	to	think	about	what	you	might	need	to	be	doing	to	manage	things	along that	vector. 


Questions	to	ask	are:


What	are	the	longer-term	goals	and	objectives	in	my	organization,	and	what projects	do	I	need	to	have	in	place	related	to	them	to	fulfill	my responsibilities? 


What	longer-term	goals	and	objectives	have	I	set	for	myself,	and	what projects	do	I	need	to	have	in	place	to	make	them	happen? 


What	other	significant	things	are	happening	that	could	affect	my	options about	what	I’m	doing? 


Let	me	emphasize	here	that	setting	new	goals	or	raising	your	standards	is	not what	I’m	specifically	advocating.	I	am,	rather,	directing	your	focus	to	what	may be	inherently	true	about	these	situations	within	your	current	reality.	If	they	are there	in	any	obvious	or	subtle	way,	then	addressing	them	appropriately	will	be critical	to	getting	into	your	own	clear	space. 


Here	are	some	examples	of	the	kinds	of	issues	that	show	up	at	this	level	of conversation:


 
The	changing	nature	of	your	job,	given	the	shifting	priorities	of	the
 
company. 
	Instead	of	managing	the	production	of	your	own	training


programs	in-house,	you’re	going	to	outsource	them	to	vendors. 


 
The	direction	in	which	you	feel	you	need	to	move	in	your	career. 
	You see	yourself	doing	a	different	kind	of	job	a	year	from	now,	and	you need	to	make	a	transition	out	of	the	one	you	have	while	exploring the	options	for	a	transfer	or	promotion. 


 
The	organization’s	direction,	given	globalization	and	expansion. 
	You see	a	lot	of	major	international	travel	looming	on	the	horizon	for you,	and	given	your	lifestyle	preferences,	you	need	to	consider	how to	readjust	your	career	plans. 


 
Lifestyle	preferences	and	changing	needs. 
	As	your	kids	get	older,	your need	to	be	at	home	with	them	is	diminishing,	and	your	interest	in investment	and	retirement	planning	is	growing. 


At	the	topmost	level	of	thinking	you’ll	need	to	ask	some	of	the	ultimate questions:	Why	does	your	company	exist?	Why	do	 
you
	exist?	What	is	the	core DNA	of	your	existence,	personally	and/or	organizationally,	that	drives	your choices?	This	is	the	big-picture	stuff	with	which	hundreds	of	books	and	gurus and	models	are	devoted	to	helping	you	grapple. 


Why?	This	is	the	great	question	with	which	we	all	struggle. 


You	can	have	all	the	other	levels	of	your	life	and	work	shipshape,	defined, and	organized	to	a	T.	Still,	if	you’re	the	slightest	bit	off	course	in	terms	of	what at	the	deepest	level	you	want	or	are	called	to	be	doing,	you’re	going	to	be uncomfortable. 


Getting	Priority	Thinking	off	Your	Mind


Take	at	least	a	few	minutes,	if	you	haven’t	already	done	so,	to	jot	down	some informal	notes	about	things	that	occurred	to	you	while	you	were	reading	this chapter.	Whatever	popped	into	your	mind	at	these	more	elevated	levels	of	your inner	radar,	write	it	down	and	get	it	out	of	your	head. 


 
Neutral	is	a	state	where	you	are	not	jumping	ahead	too	quickly	or	moving	too	slow.	Neutral	does
 
not	mean	being	inactive,	complacent,	or	passive.	It’s	about	a	calm	poise	that	allows	for	new
 
information	and	new	possibilities	to	emerge	before	taking	further	action.	When	in	neutral	you
 
actually	increase	your	sensitivity	and	intuitive	intelligence.	Neutral	is	fertile	ground	for	new
 
possibilities	to	grow	from. 


 
—Doc	Childre


Then	process	those	notes.	Decide	whether	what	you	wrote	down	is	something you	really	want	to	move	on	or	not.	If	not,	throw	the	note	away,	or	put	it	on	a Someday/Maybe	list	or	in	a	folder	called	“Dreams	and	Goals	I	Might	Get Around	to	at	Some	Point.”	Perhaps	you	want	to	continue	accumulating	more	of this	kind	of	future	thinking	and	would	like	to	do	the	exercise	with	more formality—for	example,	by	drafting	a	new	business	plan	with	your	partners, designing	and	writing	out	your	idea	of	a	dream	life	with	your	spouse,	creating	a more	specific	career	map	for	the	next	three	years	for	yourself,	or	just	getting	a personal	coach	who	can	lead	you	through	those	discussions	and	thought processes.	If	so,	put	that	outcome	on	your	Projects	list,	and	decide	the	next action.	Then	do	it,	hand	it	off	to	get	done,	or	put	the	action	reminder	on	the appropriate	list. 


With	that	done,	you	may	want	to	turn	your	focus	to	developmental	thinking about	specific	projects	that	have	been	identified	but	not	fleshed	out	as	fully	as you’d	like.	You’ll	want	to	ensure	that	you’re	set	up	for	that	kind	of	vertical processing. 


10


Getting	Projects	Under	Control


CHAPTERS	4	THROUGH	9	
have	given	you	all	the	tricks	and	methods	you	need	to	clear your	head	and	make	intuitive	choices	about	what	to	do	when.	That’s	the horizontal	level—what	needs	your	attention	and	action	across	the	horizontal landscape	of	your	life.	The	last	piece	of	the	puzzle	is	the	vertical	level—the digging	deep	and	pie-in-the-sky	thinking	that	can	leverage	your	creative brainpower.	You	may	indeed	have	clarified	outcomes	and	next-action	steps	for the	various	projects	and	situations	in	which	you’re	involved,	but	there	are	times when	you	will	feel	called	to	enhance	your	relationship	with	some	of	them	with more	creative	thinking	and	detailed	how-to	development. 


That	gets	us	back	to	refining	and	energizing	our	project	planning. 


The	Need	for	More	Informal	Planning


 
The	middle	of	every	successful	project	looks	like	a	disaster. 


 
—Rosabeth	Moss	Kanter


After	years	of	working	with	thousands	of	professionals	down	in	the	trenches,	I can	safely	say	that	virtually	all	of	us	could	be	doing	more	planning,	more informally	and	more	often,	of	our	projects	and	our	lives.	And	if	we	did,	it	would relieve	a	lot	of	pressure	on	our	psyches	and	produce	an	enormous	amount	of creative	output	with	minimal	effort. 


I’ve	discovered	that	the	biggest	improvement	opportunity	in	planning	does not	consist	of	techniques	for	the	highly	elaborate	and	complex	kinds	of	project


organizing	that	professional	project	managers	sometimes	use	(like	Gantt	charts). 


Most	of	the	people	who	need	those	already	have	them,	or	at	least	have	access	to the	training	and	software	required	to	learn	about	them.	The	real	need	is	to capture	and	utilize	more	of	the	creative,	proactive	thinking	we	do—or	 
could
	do. 


You	need	to	set	up	systems	and	tricks	that	get	you	to	think	about	your	projects	and	situations more	frequently,	more	easily,	and	more	in	depth. 


The	major	reason	for	the	lack	of	this	kind	of	effective	value-added	thinking	is the	dearth	of	easily	structured	and	usable	systems	for	managing	the	potentially infinite	amount	of	detail	that	could	show	up	as	a	result.	That	is	why	my	approach tends	to	be	bottom-up.	If	you	feel	out	of	control	with	your	current	actionable commitments,	you’ll	resist	focused	planning;	an	unconscious	pushback	occurs. 


As	you	begin	to	apply	these	methods,	however,	you	may	find	that	they	free	up room	for	enormous	creative	and	constructive	thinking.	If	you	have	systems	and habits	ready	to	leverage	your	ideas,	your	productivity	can	expand	exponentially. 


In	chapter	3,	I	covered	in	some	detail	the	five	phases	of	project	planning	that take	something	from	the	idea	stage	into	physical	reality. 


What	follows	is	a	compilation	of	practical	tips	and	techniques	to	facilitate	the natural,	informal	planning	processes	I	recommend.	Although	these	suggestions are	all	based	on	common	sense,	they’re	not	followed	by	most	people	nearly	as frequently	as	they	could	be.	Put	them	to	use	whenever	and	as	often	as	you	can, instead	of	saving	up	your	thinking	for	big	formal	meetings. 


What	Projects	Should	You	Be	Planning? 


Most	of	the	outcomes	you	have	identified	for	your	Projects	list	will	not	need	any kind	of	front-end	planning,	other	than	the	sort	you	do	in	your	head,	quickly	and naturally,	to	come	up	with	a	next	action	on	them.	The	only	planning	needed	for


“Get	car	inspected,”	for	example,	would	be	to	decide	to	check	the	Internet	for the	nearest	inspection	location	and	set	up	a	time. 


There	are	two	types	of	projects,	however,	that	deserve	at	least	some	sort	of planning	activity:	(1)	those	that	still	have	your	attention	even	after	you’ve determined	their	next	actions,	and	(2)	those	about	which	potentially	useful	ideas and	supportive	detail	just	show	up	ad	hoc. 


The	first	type—the	projects	that	you	know	have	other	things	about	them	that must	be	decided	on	and	organized—will	need	a	more	detailed	approach	than	just identifying	a	next	action.	For	these	you’ll	need	a	more	specific	application	of one	or	more	of	the	other	four	phases	of	the	natural	planning	model:	purpose	and principles,	vision/outcome,	brainstorming,	and/or	organizing. 


The	second	type—the	projects	for	which	ideas	just	show	up,	ad	hoc,	when you’re	on	a	beach	or	in	a	car	or	in	a	meeting—need	to	have	an	appropriate	place into	which	these	associated	ideas	can	be	captured.	Then	they	can	reside	there	for later	use	as	needed. 


Projects	That	Need	Next	Actions	About	Planning


There	are	probably	a	few	projects	you	can	think	of	right	now,	off	the	top	of	your head,	that	you	know	you	want	to	get	more	objectified,	fleshed	out,	and	under control.	Perhaps	you	have	an	important	meeting	coming	up	and	you	know	you have	to	prepare	an	agenda	and	materials	for	it.	Or	you’ve	just	inherited	the	job	of coordinating	the	annual	associates’	conference,	and	you’ve	got	to	get	it organized	as	soon	as	possible	so	you	can	start	delegating	significant	pieces.	Or you	need	to	think	about	and	handle	plans	for	an	upcoming	holiday	with	your family.	If	you	haven’t	done	it	already,	get	a	next	action	 
now
	that	will	start	the planning	process	for	each	of	these,	and	put	it	on	the	appropriate	action	list.	Then proceed	with	further	planning	steps. 


Typical	Planning	Steps


The	most	common	types	of	planning-oriented	actions	will	be	your	own brainstorming	and	organizing,	setting	up	meetings,	and	gathering	information. 


 
Brainstorming	
 Some	of	the	projects	that	have	your	attention	right	now	will require	you	to	do	your	own	free-form	thinking;	this	is	especially	true	of	those	for which	you	were	not	clear	about	what	the	next	action	would	be	when	you	made that	decision.	These	should	all	have	a	next	action,	such	as	“Draft	ideas	re	X.” 


You	need	to	decide	where	and	how	you	want	to	do	that	action,	in	order	to know	which	action	list	to	put	it	on.	Do	you	do	this	kind	of	thinking	best	on	a computer,	or	by	handwriting	your	thoughts	on	paper?	I	may	choose	either medium,	depending	on	what	my	intuition	tells	me.	For	me	this	next	action	would


go	either	on	my	“At	Computer”	list	or	on	“Anywhere”	(because	I	can	draw	mind maps	or	take	rough	notes	wherever	I	am,	as	long	as	I	have	pen	and	paper). 


 
Organizing	
 You	may	have	some	projects	for	which	you	have	already	collected notes	and	miscellaneous	support	materials,	and	you	just	need	to	sort	through them	and	get	them	into	a	more	structured	form.	In	this	case,	your	next	action would	likely	be	“Organize	Project	X	notes.”	If	you	have	to	be	in	your	office	to do	that	(because	that’s	where	the	files	are,	and	you	don’t	want	to	carry	them around),	that	action	should	go	on	your	“At	Office”	action	list.	If	you’re	carrying the	project	notes	around	with	you	in	a	folder,	or	in	some	digital	device,	then	the


“Organize	.	.	.”	action	would	go	on	an	“Anywhere”	action	list	if	you’re	going	to do	it	by	hand,	or	on	“At	Computer”	if	you’re	going	to	use	a	word	processing	or outlining	program,	or	presentation,	mind-mapping,	or	project-planning	software. 


One	of	the	greatest	blocks	to	organizational	(and	family)	productivity	is	the	lack	of	decision	by someone	about	the	need	for	a	meeting,	and	with	whom,	to	move	something	forward. 


 
Setting	Up	Meetings	
 Often	the	next	progress	to	be	made	on	project	thinking	is	to set	up	a	meeting	with	the	people	you’d	like	to	have	involved	in	the brainstorming	and/or	decision	making.	That	usually	means	sending	an	e-mail	to the	whole	group	or	to	an	assistant	to	get	it	calendared,	or	making	a	phone	call	to the	primary	person	to	nail	down	a	day	and	time. 


 
Gathering	Information	
 Sometimes	the	next	task	on	project	thinking	is	to	gather more	data.	Maybe	you	need	to	talk	to	someone	to	get	his	or	her	input	(“Call	Bill re	his	thoughts	on	the	managers’	meeting”).	Or	you	need	to	look	through	the files	you	just	inherited	from	last	year’s	conference	(“Review	Associate Conference	archive	files”).	Or	you	want	to	surf	the	Web	to	get	a	sense	of	what’s happening	“out	there”	on	a	new	topic	you’re	exploring	(“Look	into	college scholarship	funds”). 


Random	Project	Thinking


Don’t	lose	any	ideas	about	projects	that	could	potentially	be	useful.	Many	times you’ll	think	of	something	you	don’t	want	to	forget	when	you’re	in	a	place	that


has	nothing	to	do	with	the	project.	You’re	driving	to	the	store,	for	example,	and you	think	of	a	great	way	to	start	off	the	next	staff	meeting.	Or	you’re	stirring	the spaghetti	sauce	in	the	kitchen	and	it	occurs	to	you	that	you	might	want	to	give out	nice	tote	bags	to	participants	in	the	upcoming	conference.	Or	you’re watching	the	evening	news	when	you	suddenly	remember	another	key	person you	may	want	to	include	in	the	advisory	council	you’re	putting	together. 


If	these	aren’t	specifically	next	actions	that	can	go	directly	on	your	action lists,	you’ll	still	need	to	capture	and	organize	them	somewhere	that	makes	sense. 


Of	course,	the	most	critical	tool	for	ensuring	that	nothing	gets	lost	is	your collection	system—your	in-tray,	pen	and	paper,	or	smartphone.	You	need	to	hold all	your	ideas	until	you	later	decide	what	to	do	with	them. 


Tools	and	Structures	That	Support	Project	Thinking


No	matter	at	what	level	project	ideas	show	up,	it’s	great	to	have	good	tools always	close	at	hand	for	capturing	them	as	they	occur.	Once	they’ve	been captured,	it’s	useful	to	have	access	to	them	whenever	you	need	to	refer	to	them. 


Thinking	Tools


 
Luck	affects	everything.	Let	your	hook	always	be	cast;	in	the	stream	where	you	least	expect	it
 
there	will	be	fish. 


 
—Ovid


One	of	the	great	secrets	to	getting	ideas	and	increasing	your	productivity	is utilizing	the	function-follows-form	phenomenon—great	tools	can	trigger	good thinking.	(I’ve	come	up	with	some	of	my	most	productive	thoughts	when	simply exploring	a	new	software	application	that	created	an	interesting	or	fun	way	to generate	and	capture	data.)


If	you	aren’t	writing	anything	down,	or	inputting	into	a	digital	device,	it’s extremely	difficult	to	stay	focused	on	anything	for	more	than	a	few	minutes, especially	if	you’re	by	yourself.	But	when	you	utilize	physical	tools	to	keep	your thinking	anchored	and	saved,	you	can	stay	engaged	constructively	for	hours. 


Writing	Instruments


Function	often	follows	form.	Give	yourself	a	context	for	capturing	thoughts,	and	thoughts	will occur	that	you	don’t	yet	know	you	have. 


Keep	good	writing	tools	around	all	the	time	so	you	never	have	any	unconscious resistance	to	thinking	due	to	not	having	anything	to	capture	it	with.	If	I	don’t have	something	to	write	with	or	text	or	type	into,	I	know	I’m	not	as	comfortable letting	myself	think	progressively	about	projects	and	situations. 


Conversely,	I	have	done	some	great	thinking	and	planning	at	times	just because	I	wanted	to	use	my	great-feeling,	smooth-writing	fountain	or	gel	pen! 


You	may	not	be	inspired	by	cool	gear	like	I	am,	but	if	you	are,	do	yourself	a favor	and	invest	in	quality	writing	tools. 


I	also	suggest	that	you	keep	nice	pens	at	each	of	the	stations	where	you’re likely	to	want	to	take	notes—at	your	desk(s),	in	the	kitchen,	in	your	briefcases, satchels,	purses,	and	backpacks. 


Paper	and	Pads


Where	is	your	closest	writing	pad?	Keep	it	closer. 


In	addition	to	writing	tools,	you	should	always	have	their	functional	equivalent


—pads	of	paper—close	at	hand.	Perforated	paper	is	preferable	to	solid notebooks,	because	you	want	to	be	able	to	tear	off	pages	with	ideas	and	notes and	toss	them	into	your	in-tray	until	you	get	a	chance	to	process	them.	Also,	you may	find	it	valuable	to	keep	some	of	your	early	and	informal	jotted	mind	maps and	notes	(original	or	scanned)	in	appropriate	files.	The	handwritten	trails	often contain	rich	context	memory	jogs	that	prove	valuable	later	on. 


Easels	and	Whiteboards


 
How	do	I	know	what	I	think,	until	I	hear	what	I	say? 


 
—E.	M.	Forster


If	you	have	room	for	them,	whiteboards	and/or	easel	pads	are	very	functional thinking	tools	to	use	from	time	to	time.	They	give	you	plenty	of	space	on	which to	jot	down	ideas,	and	it	can	be	useful	to	keep	them	up	in	front	of	you	for	a while,	as	you	incubate	on	a	topic.	Whiteboards	are	great	to	have	on	a	wall	in your	office	and	in	meeting	rooms,	and	the	bigger	the	better.	Some	companies have	designed	whole	internal	walls	as	erasable	writing	surfaces,	fostering brainstorming	and	ad	hoc	visual	communications.	If	you	have	children,	I recommend	that	you	install	one	in	their	bedrooms	(I	wish	I	had	grown	up	with the	encouragement	to	have	as	many	ideas	as	I	could!).	Be	sure	to	keep	plenty	of fresh	markers	on	hand—nothing	stifles	creative	thinking	faster	than	dry	and useless	writing	tools. 


Whenever	two	or	more	people	are	gathered	for	a	meeting,	someone	should start	writing	somewhere	where	the	other(s)	can	see.	Even	if	you	erase	the thoughts	after	a	few	minutes,	just	the	act	of	writing	them	down	facilitates	a constructive	thinking	process	like	nothing	else.	(I’ve	found	it	immensely	helpful at	times	to	draw	informal	diagrams	and	notes	on	paper	tablecloths,	place	mats,	or even	napkins	in	restaurants,	if	I	didn’t	have	my	own	pad	of	paper	at	hand.) 
Thinking	in	Your	Digital	Tools


Many	times	I	like	to	think	on	my	laptop	(and,	less	frequently,	on	my	tablet), within	my	word	processing,	mind-mapping,	outlining,	presentation,	or spreadsheet	programs.	There	are	so	many	things	I	might	want	to	do	later	on	with my	thinking,	and	it	feels	terrific	to	already	have	it	in	some	digital	form	for	later editing,	and	cutting	and	pasting	into	various	other	applications.	Once	I’ve	booted up	and	the	screen	is	ready	in	front	of	me,	I	find	that	thinking	just	automatically starts	to	happen.	This	is	another	good	reason	to	ensure	that	your	typing	and keyboard	skills	are	sufficient	to	make	engaging	with	the	computer	at	least	easy, if	not	downright	fun. 


Just	as	larger	whiteboards	facilitate	more	creative	connections	and	expanded thought	horizons,	I	have	found	that	larger	and	additional	computer	screens provide	a	similar	usefulness.	As	the	world	has	rapidly	become	both	digital	and mobile,	people	have	understandably	experienced	a	tremendous	increase	in	access and	efficiency	with	their	ever-smaller	devices.	I	suggest,	however,	that	the	value of	smartphones	and	the	like	is	for	the	execution	of	the	 
results
	of	thinking—not


for	generating	creative	thought
.*	
For	that	I	want	 
more
	space,	not	less. 


The	Support	Structures


In	addition	to	good	tools	ubiquitously	at	hand,	it	is	productive	to	have	accessible formats	into	which	project	thinking	can	be	captured.	Much	as	a	good	pen	and paper	in	front	of	you	support	brainstorming,	having	good	tools	and	places	for organizing	project	details	facilitates	the	more	linear	planning	that	many	projects need. 


Create	File	Folders	or	Loose-Leaf	Pages	as	Needed


If	you	don’t	have	a	good	system	for	storing	bad	ideas,	you	probably	don’t	have	one	for	filing good	ones,	either. 


A	good	general-reference	filing	system,	right	at	hand	and	easy	to	use,	is	not	only critical	to	manage	the	general	workflow	process,	but	highly	functional	for project	thinking	as	well.	Often	a	project	begins	to	emerge	when	it’s	triggered	by relevant	data,	notes,	and	miscellaneous	materials,	and	for	this	reason,	you’ll want	to	create	a	folder	for	a	topic	as	soon	as	you	have	something	to	put	in	it.	If your	filing	system	is	too	formal	(or	nonexistent),	you’ll	probably	miss	many opportunities	to	generate	a	project	focus	sufficiently	early.	As	soon	as	you	return from	that	first	meeting	with	your	initial	notes	about	a	topic	that	has	just	emerged on	the	horizon,	create	a	file	and	store	them	in	it	right	away	(after	you	have gleaned	any	next	actions,	of	course). 


Many	times,	while	coaching	clients,	I	find	that	the	mere	act	of	creating	a	file for	a	topic	into	which	we	can	organize	random	notes	and	potentially	relevant materials	gives	them	a	significantly	improved	sense	of	control.	It’s	a	way	of physically,	visibly,	and	psychologically	getting	their	“arms	around	it.” 


If	you	like	to	work	with	a	loose-leaf	notebook	or	planner,	it’s	good	to	keep	an inventory	of	fresh	notepaper	or	graph	paper	that	you	can	use	to	set	up	a	page	on a	theme	or	project	as	it	shows	up.	While	some	projects	may	later	deserve	a whole	tabbed	section	or	even	an	entire	notebook	of	their	own,	they	don’t	start out	that	way.	And	most	of	your	projects	may	need	only	a	page	or	two	to	hold	the few	ideas	you	need	to	track. 


Paper	Versus	Digital


For	those	who	have	become	increasingly	digitally	oriented,	it	is	tempting	to	try to	eliminate	paper	altogether.	Theoretically	that	shouldn’t	be	a	problem,	with	all the	digital	note-taking,	scanning,	and	character-recognition	tools	available.	In practice,	however,	paper	still	provides	high	value	for	most	of	us.	Handwritten note	taking	is	not	going	away,	for	multiple	reasons,	not	the	least	of	which	is	the universality	of	the	tools	and	the	range	of	graphic	representations	available.	We tend	to	think	differently	when	we	express	with	different	equipment,	and	many people	find	that	writing	and	drawing	by	hand	unwraps	a	broader	palette	of	ideas. 


Also,	paper-based	materials	allow	us	to	be	reminded	of	information, relationships,	and	perspectives	more	readily	than	what	we	can	see	at	any	one time	on	a	computer	screen.	I	personally	know	of	many	digitally	savvy	people who	have	returned	to	using	paper	planners	and	notebooks	because	they	found them	easier	to	use	to	coordinate	their	own	thinking	and	reminders.	Many	times	I will	print	documents	related	to	a	person,	project,	or	topic,	which	I	then	hold	in	a physical	file	folder	to	use	in	a	meeting	or	for	my	own	writing	and	research. 


Though	much	of	that	paper	will	be	recycled	and	the	updated	information returned	to	a	digital	home,	the	physical	materials	in	the	interim	serve	a	function of	which	the	computer	by	itself	is	still	incapable. 


Digital	technology	will	undoubtedly	continue	to	emerge,	which	will contribute	vastly	to	thinking,	planning,	and	decision	support	in	ways	that	low-tech	materials	and	tools	cannot.	But	until	pens,	notepads,	Post-its,	physical folders,	and	printed	documents	can	be	replaced	by	something	better,	they	will still	need	to	play	some	part	in	your	coordinated	personal	management	system. 
*


Software	Tools


I	have	yet	to	discover	any	one	perfect	project-management	tool.	The	plethora	of applications	that	purport	to	serve	that	function	are	usually	either	too	high-powered	or	too	simplistic	for	what	most	of	us	need	to	manage.	And	as	I’ve noted,	I	have	never	seen	any	two	projects	that	needed	the	same	amount	of detailing	and	structure	to	get	them	under	control.	So	it	would	be	difficult	to create	any	one	application	that	would	suffice	for	the	majority.	The	rest	of	us usually	find	bits	and	pieces	of	applications	more	informal	and	project-friendly. 


That	said,	there	are	multiple	kinds	of	digital	tools	that	can	be	extremely useful.	Most	professionals	are	familiar	with	word	processing	programs, 


spreadsheets,	and	presentation	programs,	any	of	which	might	be	the	optimal	way to	structure	project	plans	or	portions	thereof,	especially	once	the	purpose,	vision, and	brainstorming	phases	have	been	handled. 


The	two	types	of	software	that	tend	to	be	more	useful	for	informal	planning and	brainstorming	are	mind-mapping	and	outlining	applications.	I	personally	use a	digital	mind-mapping	tool	for	most	all	of	my	projects	as	a	way	both	to	do focused	brainstorming	and	to	capture	random	thoughts	about	the	projects	as	they show	up	ad	hoc.	In	most	cases	the	final	mind	map	itself	is	sufficient	organization for	me	to	feel	comfortable	that	I	have	the	project	under	control. 


Another	option	for	brainstorming	is	an	outlining	program,	which	allows	the creation	of	headings	and	subheadings,	in	limited	or	expanded	detail.	Most	good word	processing	programs	also	provide	this	functionality.	The	nice	thing	about these	programs	is	that	they	can	handle	a	wide	range	of	complexity—from	the simplest	few	bullet	points	about	organizing	a	party	to	generating	the	structure	for a	whole	book	you’re	writing.	Though	outlining	and	word	processing	programs tend	to	support	more	structured	thinking,	because	of	the	ease	of	cutting,	pasting, and	rearranging	text	in	the	digital	world,	they	still	allow	for	plenty	of	creative thought	development. 




DIGITAL	OUTLINING


On	the	high	end	of	the	spectrum	is	complex	project-management	software. 


Professionals	and	organizations	that	have	very	specific	needs	for	which	the	rigor and	details	managed	by	those	applications	are	required	usually	have	and	use these	tools	already,	in	order	to	function.	And	they	are	most	often	customized	for company-specific	projects.	This	is	the	software	that	is	used	to	launch	Mars probes,	coordinate	building	construction,	and	deliver	airplanes	and pharmaceuticals. 


On	the	lowest	end	of	the	digital	project-management	scale	is	jotting	ideas	in the	Notes	section	of	a	Task	item	that	lists	one	of	your	projects,	or	using	generic note-generating	and	organizing	software,	creating	a	note	for	a	project	with	its associated	thoughts. 


If	you	are	computer	savvy,	you	will	no	doubt	use	several	of	these	modalities for	developing	and	capturing	project	plans	and	collateral	material.	Make	sure you	create	comfort	with	the	applications,	so	you	can	focus	more	on	your	project thinking	than	on	the	software.	It	will	also	behoove	you	to	do	regular	reviews	and updating	of	this	content,	wherever	it	is,	and	keep	it	current	with	consistent purging	and	reorganizing.	Remember	that	the	computer	is	a	bit	of	a	black	hole, and	as	memory	and	storage	capacity	continue	to	expand	and	new	cool applications	for	pieces	of	this	functionality	continue	to	proliferate,	it	becomes easier	to	keep	 
everything
	and	then	lose	a	coordinated	orientation	of	your	active stuff. 


How	Do	I	Apply	All	This	in	My	World? 


Just	as	your	Next	Actions	lists	need	to	be	up-to-date,	so,	too,	does	your	Projects list.	That	done,	give	yourself	a	block	of	time,	ideally	between	one	and	three hours,	to	handle	as	much	of	the	vertical	thinking	about	each	project	as	you	can. 


Clear	the	deck,	create	a	context,	and	do	some	creative	project	thinking.	You’ll	then	be	way ahead	of	most	people. 


At	the	very	least,	right	now	or	as	soon	as	possible,	take	those	few	of	your projects	that	you	have	the	most	attention	on	or	interest	in	right	now	and	do	some thinking,	collecting,	and	organizing	on	them,	using	whatever	tools	seem	most appropriate. 


 
Let	our	advance	worrying	become	our	advance	thinking	and	planning. 


 
—Winston	Churchill


Focus	on	each,	one	at	a	time,	top	to	bottom.	As	you	do,	ask	yourself,	“What about	this	do	I	want	to	know,	capture,	or	remember?” 


You	may	just	want	to	mind-map	some	thoughts	on	a	piece	of	paper,	make	a file,	and	toss	the	paper	into	it.	You	may	come	up	with	some	simple	bullet-point headings	to	attach	as	a	note	in	your	digital/mobile	organizer.	Or	you	could	create a	word	processing	document	and	start	an	outline	on	it. 


The	key	is	to	get	comfortable	with	having	and	using	your	ideas.	And	to acquire	the	habit	of	focusing	your	energy	constructively,	on	intended	outcomes and	open	loops,	before	you	 
have	
 to. 


part


3


The	Power	of	the	Key


Principles


11


The	Power	of	the	Capturing	Habit


Demonstrating	integrity	in	managing	internal	and	external	agreements	optimizes	all	of	your relationships. 


THERE’S	MUCH	MORE	
to	these	simple	techniques	and	models	than	may	appear	at	first glance.	Indeed,	they	offer	a	systematic	method	to	keep	your	mind	distraction-free,	ensuring	a	high	level	of	efficiency	and	effectiveness	in	your	work.	That	in itself	would	be	sufficient	reason	to	implement	these	practices. 


But	there	are	even	greater	implications	for	the	fundamental	principles	at	work here.	What	follows	in	the	next	three	chapters	is	an	accounting	of	my	experience, over	the	past	thirty	years,	of	the	subtler	and	often	more	profound	effects	that	can transpire	from	the	implementation	of	these	basic	principles.	The	longer-term results	can	have	a	significant	impact	on	you	as	an	individual,	and	they	can positively	affect	larger	organizational	cultures	as	well. 


When	people	with	whom	you	interact	notice	that	without	fail	you	receive, process,	and	organize	in	an	airtight	manner	the	exchanges	and	agreements	they have	with	you,	they	begin	to	trust	you	in	a	unique	way.	More	significantly,	you incorporate	a	level	of	self-confidence	in	your	engagement	with	your	world	that money	cannot	buy.	Such	is	the	power	of	capturing	placeholders	for	anything	that is	incomplete	or	unprocessed	in	your	life.	It	noticeably	enhances	your	mental well-being	and	improves	the	quality	of	your	communications	and	relationships, both	personally	and	professionally. 


And	when	organizations	expect	and	reinforce	this	best	practice	of	allowing nothing	to	fall	through	a	communication	crack,	with	everyone	accountable	for resulting	actions,	and	commitments	clarified	and	tracked	by	the	appropriate persons,	it	can	significantly	increase	a	culture’s	productivity	and	reduce	its stress. 


The	Personal	Benefit


How	did	it	feel	to	go	through	the	collecting	and	downloading	activity?	Most people	say	it	feels	so	bad,	and	yet	so	good.	How	can	that	be? 


If	you’re	like	most	people	who	go	through	the	full	capturing	process,	you probably	felt	some	form	of	anxiety.	Descriptive	terms	like	 
overwhelmed
,  
panic
, 
frustration
,  
fatigue
,	and	 
disgust
	tend	to	come	up	when	I	ask	seminar	participants to	describe	their	emotions	in	going	through	a	minor	version	of	this	procedure. 


And	is	there	anything	you	think	you’ve	procrastinated	on	in	that	stack?	If	so,	you have	guilt	automatically	associated	with	it—“I	could	have,	should	have,	ought	to have	done	this	before	now.” 


At	the	same	time,	did	you	experience	any	sense	of	release,	or	relief,	or control	as	you	did	the	drill?	Most	people	say	yes,	indeed.	How	does	that	happen? 


Totally	opposite	emotional	states	showing	up	as	you’re	doing	a	single	exercise, almost	at	the	same	time—anxiety	and	relief;	overwhelmed	and	in	control. 


What’s	going	on	here? 


When	you	understand	the	source	of	your	negative	feelings	about	all	your stuff,	you’ll	discover,	as	I	did,	the	way	to	get	rid	of	them.	And	if	you experienced	any	positive	feelings	from	collecting	your	stuff,	you	actually	began the	process	of	eliminating	the	negativity	yourself. 


The	Source	of	the	Negative	Feelings


The	sense	of	anxiety	and	guilt	doesn’t	come	from	having	too	much	to	do;	it’s	the	automatic result	of	breaking	agreements	with	yourself. 


Where	do	the	not-so-good	feelings	come	from?	Too	much	to	do?	No,	there’s always	too	much	to	do.	If	you	felt	bad	simply	because	there	was	more	to	do	than you	could	do,	you’d	never	get	rid	of	that	feeling.	Having	too	much	to	do	is	not the	source	of	the	negative	feeling.	It	comes	from	a	different	place. 


How	have	you	felt	when	someone	broke	an	agreement	with	you,	told	you they	would	meet	you	Thursday	at	four	p.m.	and	never	showed	or	called?	How did	that	feel?	Frustrating,	I	imagine.	The	price	people	pay	when	they	break	an agreement	in	the	world	is	the	disintegration	of	trust	in	the	relationship—an automatic	negative	consequence. 


But	what	are	all	those	things	in	your	in-tray?	Agreements	you’ve	made	or	at least	implicitly	accepted	with	yourself—things	you	somehow	have	told	yourself you	should	deal	with	in	some	way.	Your	negative	feelings	are	simply	the	result of	breaking	those	agreements—they’re	the	symptoms	of	disintegrated	self-trust. 


If	you	tell	yourself	to	draft	a	strategic	plan,	when	you	don’t	do	it,	you	feel	bad. 


Tell	yourself	to	get	organized,	and	if	you	fail	to,	welcome	to	guilt	and frustration.	Resolve	to	spend	more	time	with	your	kids	and	then	don’t—voila! 


anxious	and	overwhelmed. 


How	Do	You	Prevent	Broken	Agreements	with	Yourself? 


If	the	negative	feelings	come	from	broken	agreements,	you	have	three	options for	dealing	with	them	and	eliminating	the	negative	consequences: Don’t	make	the	agreement. 


Complete	the	agreement. 


Renegotiate	the	agreement. 


All	of	these	can	work	to	get	rid	of	the	unpleasant	feelings. 


Don’t	Make	the	Agreement


It	probably	felt	pretty	good	to	take	a	bunch	of	your	old	stuff,	decide	that	you weren’t	going	to	do	anything	with	it,	and	just	shred,	recycle,	or	toss	it	into	the trash.	One	way	to	handle	an	incompletion	in	your	world	is	to	just	say	 
no
! 


You’d	lighten	up	a	lot	if	you	would	just	lower	your	standards.	If	you	didn’t care	so	much	about	things	being	up	to	a	certain	level—your	parenting,	your school	system,	your	team’s	morale,	the	software	code—you’d	have	fewer	things to	do	or	have	attention	on. 
*


I	doubt	you’re	going	to	lower	your	standards.	But	once	you	really	understand the	consequences,	you’ll	probably	make	fewer	agreements.	I	know	I	did.	I	used to	make	a	lot	of	them,	just	to	win	people’s	approval.	When	I	realized	the	price	I was	paying	on	the	back	end	for	not	keeping	those	agreements,	I	became	a	lot more	conscious	about	the	ones	I	made.	One	insurance	executive	I	worked	with described	the	major	benefit	he	derived	from	implementation	of	this	system:


“Previously	I	would	just	tell	everyone,	‘Sure,	I’ll	do	it,’	because	I	didn’t	know


how	much	I	really	had	to	do.	Now	that	I’ve	got	the	inventory	clear	and	complete, just	to	maintain	my	integrity,	I	have	had	to	say,	‘No,	I	can’t	do	that,	I’m	sorry.’


The	amazing	thing	is	that	instead	of	being	upset	with	my	refusal,	everyone	was impressed	with	my	discipline!” 


Maintaining	an	objective	and	complete	inventory	of	your	work,	regularly	reviewed,	makes	it much	easier	to	say	no	with	integrity. 


Another	client,	an	entrepreneur	in	the	personal	coaching	business,	recently told	me	that	making	an	inventory	of	his	work	had	eliminated	a	huge	amount	of worry	and	stress	from	his	life.	The	discipline	of	putting	everything	he	had	his attention	on	into	his	in-tray	caused	him	to	reconsider	what	he	really	wanted	to	do 
anything
	about.	If	he	wasn’t	willing	to	toss	a	note	about	it	into	“in,”	he	just	let	it go! 


I	consider	that	very	mature	thinking.	One	of	the	best	things	about	this	whole method	is	that	when	you	really	take	on	the	responsibility	to	capture	and	track what’s	on	your	mind,	you’ll	think	twice	about	making	commitments	internally that	you	don’t	really	need	or	want	to	make.	In	my	many	years	of	working	with people	to	get	their	list	of	Projects	clear	and	current,	every	single	person	has decided	that	something	was	not	worth	doing	that	they	thought	they	were committed	to.	Not	being	aware	of	all	you	have	to	do	is	much	like	having	a	credit card	for	which	you	don’t	know	the	balance	or	the	limit—it’s	a	lot	easier	to	be careless	with	your	commitments. 


Complete	the	Agreement


Of	course,	another	way	to	get	rid	of	the	negative	feelings	about	your	stuff	is	to just	finish	it	and	be	able	to	mark	it	off	as	done.	You	actually	love	to	 
do
	things,	as long	as	you	get	the	feeling	that	you’ve	completed	something.	If	you’ve	begun	to take	less-than-two-minute	actions	as	they	surface	in	your	life,	I’m	sure	you	can attest	to	the	psychological	benefit.	Most	people	I	work	with	feel	fantastic	after just	a	couple	of	hours	of	processing	their	piles,	simply	because	of	how	many things	they	accomplish	using	the	two-minute	rule. 


 
Out	of	the	strain	of	the	doing,	into	the	peace	of	the	done. 


 
—Julia	Louise	Woodruff


One	of	your	better	weekends	may	be	spent	just	finishing	up	a	lot	of	little errands	and	tasks	that	have	accumulated	around	your	house	and	in	your	personal life.	Invariably	when	you	capture	all	the	open	loops,	little	and	big,	and	see	them on	a	list	in	front	of	you,	some	part	of	you	will	be	inspired	(or	creatively disgusted	or	intimidated	enough)	to	go	knock	them	off	the	list. 


We	all	seem	to	be	starved	for	a	win.	It’s	great	to	satisfy	that	by	giving yourself	doable	tasks	you	can	start	and	finish	easily.	Have	you	ever	completed something	that	wasn’t	initially	on	a	list,	so	you	wrote	it	down	and	checked	it	off? 


Then	you	know	what	I	mean. 


There’s	another	issue	here,	however.	How	would	you	feel	if	your	list	and your	stack	were	totally—and	successfully—completed?	You’d	probably	be bouncing	off	the	ceiling,	full	of	creative	energy.	Of	course,	within	three	days	(if not	three	minutes!),	guess	what	you’d	have?	Right—another	list,	and	probably an	even	bigger	one,	with	more	potentially	daunting	things	to	do	on	it!	You’d	feel so	good	about	finishing	all	your	stuff	you’d	likely	take	on	bigger,	more ambitious	things	to	do. 


Not	only	that,	but	if	you	have	a	boss	(or	a	board),	what	do	you	think	he	or	she or	they	are	going	to	do	after	noticing	the	high	levels	of	competency	and productivity	you’re	demonstrating?	Right	again—give	you	more	things	to	do! 


It’s	the	irony	of	professional	development—the	better	you	get,	the	better	you’d 
better
	get. 


So,	since	you’re	not	going	to	significantly	lower	your	standards	or	stop creating	more	things	to	do,	you’d	better	get	comfortable	with	the	third	option,	if you	want	to	keep	from	being	stressed	out. 


Renegotiate	the	Agreement


Suppose	I’d	told	you	I	would	meet	you	Thursday	at	four	p.m.,	but	after	I	made the	appointment,	my	world	changed.	Now,	given	my	new	priorities,	I	decide	I’m 
not
	going	to	meet	you	Thursday	at	four.	But	instead	of	simply	not	showing	up, what	had	I	better	do,	to	maintain	the	integrity	of	the	relationship?	Correct—call and	change	the	agreement.	A	renegotiated	agreement	is	not	a	broken	one. 


 
It	is	the	act	of	forgiveness	that	opens	up	the	only	possible	way	to	think	creatively	about	the


 
future	at	all. 


 
—Father	Desmond	Wilson


Do	you	understand	yet	why	getting	all	your	stuff	out	of	your	head	and	in front	of	you	makes	you	feel	better?	Because	you	automatically	renegotiate	your agreements	with	yourself	when	you	look	at	them,	think	about	them,	and	either act	on	them	that	very	moment	or	say,	“No,	not	now.”	Here’s	the	problem:	it’s impossible	to	renegotiate	agreements	with	yourself	that	you	can’t	remember	you made! 


The	fact	that	you	can’t	remember	an	agreement	you	made	with	yourself doesn’t	mean	that	you’re	not	holding	yourself	liable	for	it.	Ask	any	psychologist how	much	of	a	sense	of	past	and	future	that	part	of	your	psyche	has,	the	part	that was	storing	the	list	you	dumped:	zero.	It’s	all	present	tense	in	there.	That	means that	as	soon	as	you	tell	yourself	that	you	should	do	something,	if	you	file	it	only in	your	short-term	memory,	that	part	of	you	thinks	you	should	be	doing	it	 
all	the
 
time
.	And	 
that	
 means	that	as	soon	as	you’ve	given	yourself	two	things	to	do,	and filed	them	only	in	your	head,	you’ve	created	instant	and	automatic	stress	and failure,	because	you	can’t	do	them	both	at	once,	and	that	(apparently	significant) part	of	your	psyche	will	continue	to	hold	you	accountable. 


If	you’re	like	most	people,	you’ve	probably	got	some	storage	area	at	home—


maybe	a	basement	that	you	told	yourself	a	while	back	(maybe	even	ten	years ago!)	you	ought	to	clean	and	organize.	If	so,	there’s	a	part	of	you	that	likely thinks	you	should’ve	been	cleaning	your	basement	twenty-four	hours	a	day	for the	past	ten	years!	No	wonder	people	are	so	tired!	And	have	you	heard	that	little voice	inside	your	own	mental	committee	every	time	you	walk	by	that	area? 


“Why	are	we	walking	by	the	basement?	Aren’t	we	supposed	to	be	cleaning	it?” 


Because	you	can’t	stand	that	whining,	nagging	part	of	yourself,	you	never	even go	into	that	area	anymore	if	you	can	help	it.	If	you	want	to	shut	that	voice	up, you	have	three	options	for	dealing	with	your	agreement	with	yourself. 


I’m	quite	sincere	about	this.	It	seems	that	there’s	a	part	of	our	consciousness that	doesn’t	know	the	difference	between	an	agreement	about	cleaning	the basement	and	an	agreement	about	buying	a	company	or	improving	our	personal finances.	In	there,	they’re	all	just	agreements—kept	or	broken.	If	you’re	holding something	only	internally,	it	will	be	a	broken	agreement	if	you’re	not	moving	on it	in	the	moment. 


The	Radical	Departure	from	Traditional	Time	Management
 This	method	is	significantly	different	from	traditional	time-management training.	Most	of	those	models	leave	you	with	the	impression	that	if	something you	tell	yourself	to	do	isn’t	that	important,	it’s	not	worth	it	to	track,	manage,	or deal	with.	But	in	my	experience	that’s	inaccurate,	at	least	in	terms	of	how	a	less-than-conscious	part	of	us	operates.	It	 
is
	how	our	conscious	mind	operates, however,	so	every	agreement	must	be	made	conscious.	That	means	it	must	be captured,	clarified,	and	reviewed	objectively	and	regularly	in	full	conscious awareness	so	that	you	can	put	it	where	it	belongs	in	your	self-management	arena. 


If	that	doesn’t	happen,	it	will	actually	take	up	a	lot	more	of	your	internal	energy than	it	deserves. 


In	my	experience,	anything	that	is	held	only	in	your	head	will	take	up	either more	or	less	attention	than	it	deserves.	The	reason	to	collect	everything	is	not that	everything	is	equally	important;	it’s	that	it’s	 
not
.	Incompletions,	uncaptured, take	on	a	dull	sameness	in	the	sense	of	the	pressure	they	create	and	the	attention they	tie	up. 


How	Much	Capturing	Is	Required? 


You’ll	feel	better	collecting	 
anything
	that	you	haven’t	captured	yet.	When	you say	to	yourself,	“Oh,	that’s	right,	I	need	to	get	butter	the	next	time	I’m	at	the store,”	and	you	write	it	on	your	grocery	list,	you’ll	feel	better.	When	you remember,	“I’ve	got	to	call	my	financial	adviser	about	the	trust	fund,”	and	you write	that	down	someplace	where	you	know	you’ll	see	it	when	you	have	a	phone and	time,	you’ll	feel	better.	But	there’s	still	a	light-year’s	difference	when	you know	you	have	it	 
all
. 


When	will	you	know	how	much	you	have	left	in	your	head	to	capture?	Only when	there’s	nothing	left.	If	some	part	of	you	is	even	vaguely	aware	that	you don’t	have	it	all,	you	can’t	really	know	what	percentage	you	have	collected. 


How	will	you	know	when	there’s	nothing	left?	When	nothing	else	shows	up	as	a reminder	in	your	mind. 


When	the	only	thing	on	your	mind	is	the	only	thing	on	your	mind,	you’ll	be	“present,”	in	your


“zone,”	with	no	distinction	between	work	and	play. 


This	doesn’t	mean	that	your	mind	will	be	empty.	If	you’re	conscious,	your mind	will	always	be	focusing	on	something.	But	if	it’s	focusing	on	only	one thing	at	a	time,	without	distraction,	you’ll	be	in	your	“zone.” 


I	suggest	that	you	use	your	mind	to	think	 
about
	things,	rather	than	think	 
of
 them.	You	want	to	be	adding	value	as	you	think	about	projects	and	situations, not	creating	stress	by	simply	reminding	yourself	they	exist	and	you	need	to	do something	about	them.	To	fully	realize	that	more	productive	place,	you	will	need to	capture	it	all.	It	takes	focus	and	a	change	of	habit	to	train	yourself	to	recognize and	download	even	the	smallest	agreements	with	yourself	as	they’re	created	in your	mind.	Doing	the	capturing	process	as	fully	as	you	can,	and	then incorporating	the	behavior	of	gathering	all	the	new	things	as	they	emerge,	will be	more	empowering	and	productive	than	you	can	imagine. 


When	Relationships	and	Organizations	Have	the	Capture


Habit


What	happens	when	everyone	involved	on	a	team—in	a	marriage,	in	a department,	on	a	staff,	in	a	family,	in	a	company—can	be	trusted	not	to	let anything	slip	through	the	cracks?	Frankly,	once	you’ve	achieved	that,	you’ll hardly	think	about	whether	people	are	dropping	the	ball	anymore—there	will	be much	bigger	and	better	things	to	occupy	your	attention. 


Having	to	bail	water	in	a	leaky	boat	undermines	your	ability	to	direct	it	and	move	it	forward. 


But	if	communication	gaps	are	still	an	issue,	there’s	likely	some	layer	of frustration	and	a	general	nervousness	in	the	relationship	or	the	culture.	Most people	feel	that	without	constant	babysitting	and	hand-holding,	things	could disappear	in	the	system	and	then	blow	up	at	any	time.	They	don’t	realize	that they’re	feeling	this	because	they’ve	been	in	this	situation	so	consistently	that they	relate	to	it	as	if	it	were	a	permanent	law,	like	gravity.	It	doesn’t	have	to	be that	way. 


I	have	noticed	this	for	years.	Good	people	who	haven’t	incorporated	these behaviors	come	into	my	environment,	and	they	stick	out	like	a	sore	thumb.	I’ve lived	with	the	standards	of	a	clear	head	and	hard,	clean	edges	on	in-trays	for more	than	three	decades	now.	When	a	note	sits	idle	in	someone’s	in-tray


unprocessed,	or	when	he	or	she	nods,	“Yes,	I	will,”	in	a	conversation	but	doesn’t otherwise	capture	that	in	some	way,	my	“uh-oh”	bell	rings.	This	is	unacceptable behavior	in	my	world.	There	are	much	bigger	fish	to	fry	than	worrying	about leaks	in	the	system. 


I	need	to	trust	that	any	request	or	relevant	information	I	put	in	an	e-mail,	on	a voice	mail,	in	a	conversation,	or	in	a	written	note	will	get	into	the	other	person’s system	and	that	it	will	be	processed	and	organized	soon,	and	available	for	his	or her	review	as	an	option	for	action.	If	the	recipient	is	managing	voice	mails	but not	e-mail	and	paper,	I	have	now	been	hamstrung	to	use	only	his	or	her	trusted medium.	That	should	be	unacceptable	behavior	in	any	organization	that	cares about	whether	things	happen	with	the	least	amount	of	effort. 


When	change	is	required,	there	must	be	trust	that	the	initiatives	for	that change	will	be	dealt	with	appropriately.	Any	intact	system	will	ultimately	be only	as	good	as	its	weakest	link,	and	often	that	Achilles’	heel	is	a	key	person’s dulled	responsiveness	to	communications	in	the	system. 


I	especially	notice	this	when	I	walk	around	organizations	where	in-trays	are either	nonexistent	or	overflowing	and	obviously	long	unprocessed.	These cultures	usually	suffer	from	serious	“interrupt-itis”	because	they	can’t	trust putting	communications	into	the	system.	I	come	across	executives	whose calendars	are	insanely	overbooked	but	who,	when	they	begin	to	give	timely responses	to	their	e-mails,	experience	a	dramatic	relief	from	that	pressure.	When their	staff	and	others	are	getting	what	they	need	in	terms	of	appropriate	feedback and	decisions	through	that	virtual	medium,	they	no	longer	need	the	kind	of	face-to-face	time	they	previously	tried	to	get	with	meetings. 


Where	cultures	do	have	solid	systems,	down	through	the	low-tech	level	of paper	communications,	the	clarity	is	palpable.	It’s	hardly	even	a	conscious concern,	and	everyone’s	attention	is	more	focused.	The	same	is	true	in	families that	have	installed	in-trays—the	parents,	the	children,	the	nanny,	the housekeeper,	or	anyone	else	with	whom	family	members	frequently	interact. 


People	often	grimace	when	I	tell	them	that	my	wife	and	I	put	things	in	each other’s	in-trays,	even	when	we’re	sitting	within	a	few	feet	of	each	other;	to	them it	seems	cold	and	mechanical.	Aside	from	being	an	act	of	politeness	intended	to avoid	interrupting	the	other’s	work	in	progress,	the	practice	actually	fosters	more warmth	and	freedom	between	us,	because	mechanical	things	are	being	handled in	the	system	instead	of	tying	up	our	attention	on	the	relationship. 


Organizations	must	create	a	culture	in	which	it	is	acceptable	that	everyone	has	more	to	do	than he	or	she	can	do,	and	in	which	it	is	sage	to	renegotiate	agreements	about	what	everyone	is	 
not
 doing. 


Unfortunately,	you	can’t	legislate	personal	systems.	Everyone	must	have	his or	her	own	way	to	deal	with	what	he	or	she	has	to	deal	with.	You	can,	however, hold	people	accountable	for	outcomes,	and	for	tracking	and	managing everything	that	comes	their	way.	And	you	can	give	them	the	information	in	this book.	Then,	at	least,	they’ll	have	no	excuse	for	letting	something	fall	through	the cracks. 


This	doesn’t	mean	that	everyone	has	to	do	everything.	I	hope	I	have described	a	way	to	relate	to	our	knowledge-based	world	that	provides	room	for everyone	to	have	a	lot	more	to	do	than	he	or	she	 
can
	do.	The	critical	issue	will be	to	facilitate	a	constant	renegotiation	process	with	all	involved,	so	they	feel OK	about	what	they’re	 
not
	doing.	That’s	real	knowledge	work,	at	a	more sophisticated	level.	But	there’s	little	hope	of	getting	there	without	having bulletproof	capture	systems	in	play.	Remember,	you	can’t	renegotiate	an agreement	with	yourself	that	you	can’t	remember	you	made.	And	you	certainly can’t	renegotiate	agreements	with	others	that	you	and	they	have	lost	track	of. 


When	groups	of	people	collectively	adopt	the	100	percent	capture	standard, they	have	a	tight	ship	to	sail.	It	doesn’t	mean	they’re	sailing	in	the	right direction,	or	even	that	they’re	on	the	right	ship;	it	just	means	that	the	one	they’re on,	in	the	direction	it’s	going,	is	sailing	with	the	most	efficient	energy	it	can. 


12


The	Power	of	the	Next-Action	Decision


When	a	culture	adopts	“What’s	the	next	action?”	as	a	standard	operating	query,	there’s	an automatic	increase	in	energy,	productivity,	clarity,	and	focus. 


I	HAVE	A	
personal	mission	to	make	“What’s	the	next	action?”	part	of	our	global thought	process.	I	envision	a	world	in	which	no	meeting	or	discussion	will	end, and	no	interaction	cease,	without	a	clear	indication	of	whether	or	not	some action	is	needed—and	if	it	is,	what	it	will	be,	or	at	least	who	has	accountability for	it.	I	envision	organizations	adopting	a	standard	that	anything	that	lands	in anyone’s	field	of	awareness	will	be	evaluated	for	action	required,	and	the resulting	decisions	managed	appropriately.	Imagine	the	freedom	that	would provide	for	people	and	organizations	to	focus	their	attention	on	bigger	issues	and opportunities. 


Over	the	years	I	have	noticed	an	extraordinary	shift	in	energy	and productivity	whenever	individuals	and	groups	installed	“What’s	the	next action?”	as	a	fundamental	and	consistently	asked	question.	As	simple	as	the query	seems,	it	is	still	somewhat	rare	to	find	it	fully	operational	where	it	needs	to be. 


One	of	the	greatest	challenges	you	may	encounter	is	that	once	you	have gotten	used	to	“What’s	the	next	action?”	for	yourself	and	those	around	you, interacting	with	people	who	aren’t	asking	it	can	be	highly	frustrating.	It	clarifies things	so	quickly	that	dealing	with	people	and	environments	that	don’t	use	it	can seem	nightmarish. 


We	are	all	accountable	for	defining	what,	if	anything,	we	are	committed	to make	happen	as	we	engage	with	others	and	ourselves.	And	at	some	point,	for any	outcome	that	we	have	an	internal	commitment	to	complete,	we	must	make the	decision	about	the	next	physical	action	required.	There’s	a	great	difference, 


however,	between	making	that	decision	when	things	 
show
	up	and	doing	it	when they	 
blow
	up. 


The	Source	of	the	Technique


 
Doing	a	straightforward,	clear-cut	task	that	has	a	beginning	and	an	end	balances	out	the
 
complexity-without-end	that	often	vexes	the	rest	of	my	life.	Sacred	simplicity. 


 
—Robert	Fulghum


I	learned	this	simple	but	extraordinary	next-action	technique	more	than	thirty years	ago	from	a	longtime	friend	and	management-consultant	mentor	of	mine, Dean	Acheson	(no	relation	to	the	former	U.S.	Secretary	of	State).	Dean	had spent	many	prior	years	consulting	with	executives	and	researching	what	was required	to	free	up	the	logjams	many	of	them	had	regarding	projects	and situations	they	were	involved	in,	in	order	to	release	and	galvanize	energy	for significant	change	required	in	their	organizations.	One	day	he	just	started picking	up	each	individual	piece	of	paper	on	an	executive’s	desk	and	forcing him	to	decide	what	the	very	next	thing	was	that	he	had	to	do	to	move	it	forward. 


The	results	were	so	immediate	and	so	profound	for	the	executive	that	Dean continued	for	years	to	perfect	a	methodology	using	that	same	question	to	process the	in-tray.	Since	then,	given	what	I’ve	developed	using	Dean’s	insights, hundreds	of	thousands	of	people	have	been	trained	and	coached	with	this	key concept,	and	it	remains	a	foolproof	technique. 


This	thought	process	is	not	something	we	are	born	doing,	nor	does	it	seem	to come	to	us	naturally.	When	you	were	born,	it	probably	didn’t	occur	to	you	to	ask your	mother,	“So,	what	are	we	doing	here,	and	what’s	the	next	action,	and	who has	it?”	It	is	a	learned	technique	of	thinking,	decision	making,	and	consciously directed	focus.	It	will	happen	automatically	for	you	when	the	situation	obviously demands	it,	as	in	a	crisis,	or	when	the	pressure	in	a	situation	(from	the	boss,	a client,	your	child,	or	the	unexpected	circumstance)	forces	a	next-action	decision to	avert	painful	consequences.	But	incorporating	this	as	a	proactive	behavior, before	the	circumstances	are	so	obvious	and	actions	so	immediately	necessary,	is an	acquired	practice
.*
	Making	it	a	part	of	your	personal	and	organizational	life never	fails	to	improve	both	your	productivity	and	peace	of	mind. 


Creating	the	Option	of	Doing


How	could	something	so	simple	be	so	powerful—“What’s	the	next	action?” 


To	help	answer	that	question,	I	invite	you	to	revisit	for	a	moment	your	mind-sweep	list	(see	page
	115)
—or	at	least	to	think	about	all	the	projects	that	are probably	sitting	around	in	your	head.	Do	you	have	a	sense	that	any	of	them haven’t	been	moving	along	as	consistently	and	productively	as	they	could	be? 


You’ll	probably	admit	that	yes,	indeed,	a	few	have	been	a	little	bit	stuck. 


If	you	haven’t	known	for	sure	whether	you	needed	to	make	a	call,	send	an	e-mail,	talk	to	someone,	surf	the	Web	about	something,	or	buy	an	item	at	the	store as	the	very	next	thing	to	move	on,	it	hasn’t	been	getting	done.	What’s	ironic	is that	it	would	likely	require	only	about	ten	seconds	of	thinking	to	figure	out	what the	next	action	would	be	for	almost	everything	on	your	list.	But	it’s	ten	seconds of	thinking	and	decision	making	that	most	people	haven’t	done	about	most things	on	their	lists. 


For	example,	someone	will	have	something	like	“tires”	on	a	list. 


I	then	ask,	“What’s	that	about?” 


He	responds,	“Well,	I	need	new	tires	on	my	car.” 


“So	what’s	the	next	action?” 


At	that	point	he	usually	wrinkles	up	his	forehead,	ponders	for	a	few moments,	and	expresses	his	conclusion:	“Well,	I	need	to	check	the	Web	for stores	and	prices	for	the	tires.” 


That’s	about	how	much	time	and	cognitive	investment	is	required	to	decide what	the	“doing”	would	look	like	on	almost	everything.	It’s	just	the	few	seconds of	focused	thinking	that	most	people	have	not	yet	done	about	most	of	their	still unfinished	stuff. 


 
The	secret	of	getting	ahead	is	getting	started.	The	secret	of	getting	started	is	breaking	your
 
complex	overwhelming	tasks	into	small,	manageable	tasks,	and	then	starting	on	the	first	one. 


 
—Mark	Twain


It	will	probably	be	true,	too,	that	the	person	who	needs	tires	on	his	car	has had	that	on	his	radar	for	quite	a	while.	It’s	also	likely	that	he’s	been	on	his computer	hundreds	of	times,	often	with	just	enough	time	and	energy	to	take	that action.	Why	didn’t	he	do	it?	Because	in	that	state	of	mind,	the	last	thing	in	the world	he	felt	like	doing	was	considering	all	his	projects,	including	getting	tires, 


and	what	their	next	actions	were.	In	those	moments	he	didn’t	feel	like	thinking	at all. 


What	he	needed	was	to	have	already	figured	those	things	out.	If	he	gets	that next-action	thinking	done,	then	when	he	happens	to	have	fifteen	minutes	before a	meeting,	at	his	computer,	and	his	energy	is	about	4.2	out	of	10,	he	can	look	at the	list	of	things	to	do	and	be	delighted	to	see	“Research	new	tires”	on	it.	“That’s something	I	can	do	and	complete	successfully!”	he’ll	think,	and	then	he’ll actually	be	motivated	to	surf	the	Web	about	it,	just	to	experience	the	“win”	of completing	something	useful	in	the	time	and	energy	window	he’s	in.	In	this context	he’d	be	incapable	of	starting	a	large	proposal	draft	for	a	client,	but	he	has sufficient	resources	for	searching	the	Internet	and	getting	simple	information quickly.	It’s	highly	probable	that	at	some	point	he’ll	look	at	a	new	set	of	tires	on his	car	and	feel	on	top	of	the	world. 


Defining	what	real	doing	looks	like	on	the	most	basic	level	and	organizing placeholder	reminders	that	we	can	trust	are	master	keys	to	productivity enhancement	and	creating	a	relaxed	inner	environment. 


Without	a	next	action,	there	remains	a	potentially	infinite	gap	between	current	reality	and	what you	need	to	do. 


Often	even	the	simplest	things	are	stuck	because	we	haven’t	made	a	final decision	yet	about	the	next	action.	People	in	my	seminars	often	have	things	on their	lists	like	“Get	a	tune-up	for	the	car.”	Is	“Get	a	tune-up”	a	next	action?	Not unless	you’re	walking	out	to	your	car	with	wrench	in	hand,	dressed	to	get	greasy. 


“So,	what’s	the	next	action?” 


“Uh,	I	need	to	take	the	car	to	the	garage.	Oh,	yeah,	I	need	to	find	out	if	the garage	can	take	it.	I	guess	I	need	to	call	the	garage	and	make	the	appointment.” 


“Do	you	have	the	number?” 


“Darn,	no	.	.	.	I	don’t	have	the	name	and	number	for	the	garage.	Fred recommended	that	garage	to	me,	and	I	don’t	have	that	information.	I	knew something	was	missing	in	the	equation.” 


And	that’s	often	what	happens	with	so	many	things	for	so	many	people.	We glance	at	the	project,	and	some	part	of	us	thinks,	“I	don’t	quite	have	all	the pieces	between	here	and	there.”	We	know	something	is	missing,	but	we’re	not sure	what	it	is,	so	we	quit. 


“So,	what’s	the	next	action?” 


“I	need	to	get	the	name	and	phone	number.	I	guess	I	could	get	it	from	Fred.” 


“How	could	you	do	that?” 


“I	can	e-mail	Fred!” 


So	the	next	action	really	is	“E-mail	Fred	for	info	re:	the	garage.” 


Did	you	notice	how	many	steps	had	to	be	tracked	back	before	we	got	to	the real	next	action	on	this	project?	That’s	typical.	Most	people	have	many	things just	like	that	on	their	lists	and	on	their	minds. 


Why	Bright	People	Procrastinate	the	Most


It’s	really	the	smartest	and	most	sensitive	people	who	have	the	highest	number of	undecided	things	in	their	lives	and	on	their	lists.	Why	is	that?	Think	of	how our	bodies	respond	to	the	images	we	hold	in	our	minds.	It	appears	that	the nervous	system	can’t	tell	the	difference	between	a	well-imagined	thought	and reality. 


Bright	people	have	the	capability	of	freaking	out	faster	and	more	dramatically	than	anyone	else. 


To	prove	this	to	yourself,	picture	walking	into	a	food	market	and	approaching the	brightly	lit	fruit-and-vegetable	section.	Are	you	there?	OK,	now	go	to	the citrus	bins—oranges,	grapefruits,	lemons.	Now	see	the	big	pile	of	yellow lemons.	There’s	a	cutting	board	and	a	knife	next	to	them.	Take	one	of	those	big yellow	lemons	and	cut	it	in	half	lengthwise.	Smell	that	citrus	smell!	It’s	really juicy,	and	there’s	lemon	juice	trickling	onto	the	board.	Now	take	a	half	lemon and	cut	 
that
	in	half,	so	you	have	a	quarter	lemon	wedge	in	your	hands.	OK,	now


—remember	how	you	did	this	as	a	kid?—put	that	quarter	of	a	lemon	in	your mouth	and	bite	into	it!	Scrunch! 


If	you	played	along	with	me,	you	probably	noticed	that	the	saliva	content	in your	mouth	increased	at	least	a	bit.	Your	body	was	actually	trying	to	process citric	acid!	And	it	was	just	in	your	mind.	If	your	body	responds	to	the	pictures you	give	it,	how	are	you	likely	to	feel	physically	when	you	think	about,	say, doing	your	taxes?	Are	you	sending	yourself	easy,	let’s	go,	completion,	success, and	“I’m	a	winner!”	pictures?	Probably	not.	For	just	that	reason,	what	kinds	of people	would	logically	be	the	most	resistant	to	being	reminded	about	a	project


like	that—that	is,	who	would	procrastinate	the	most?	Of	course,	it	would	be	the most	creative,	sensitive,	and	intelligent	people—because	their	sensitivity	and creativity	give	them	the	capability	to	produce	in	their	minds	lurid	nightmare scenarios	about	what	might	be	involved	in	doing	the	project,	and	all	the	negative consequences	that	might	occur	if	it	isn’t	done	perfectly!	They	just	freak	out	in	an instant	and	quit! 


 
I	am	an	old	man,	and	I	have	known	a	great	many	troubles,	but	most	of	them	never	happened. 


 
—Mark	Twain


Who	doesn’t	procrastinate?	Often	it’s	the	insensitive	oafs	who	just	take something	and	start	plodding	forward,	unaware	of	all	the	things	that	could	go wrong.	Everyone	else	tends	to	get	hung	up	about	all	kinds	of	things. 


Do	my	taxes?	Oh,	no!	It’s	not	going	to	be	that	easy.	It’s	going	to	be	different this	year,	I’m	sure.	I	saw	the	forms—they	look	different.	There	are	probably	new rules	I’m	going	to	have	to	figure	out.	I	might	have	to	read	all	that	damn	material. 


Long	form,	short	form,	medium	form.	File	together	with	my	partner?	File separate?	We’ll	probably	want	to	claim	some	new	deductions,	but	if	we	do	we’ll have	to	back	them	up,	and	that	means	we’ll	need	all	the	receipts.	Oh,	my	God—I don’t	know	if	we	really	have	all	the	receipts	we’ll	need,	and	what	if	we	didn’t have	all	the	receipts	but	we	claimed	the	deductions	anyway	and	we	got	audited? 


Audited?	Oh,	no—tax	fraud!	Jail! 


And	so	a	lot	of	people	psychologically	put	themselves	in	jail,	just	glancing	at their	tax	forms—because	they’re	so	smart,	sensitive,	and	creative.	In	my	many years	of	coaching	individuals,	this	pattern	has	been	borne	out	more	times	than	I can	count—usually	it’s	the	brightest	and	most	sophisticated	folks	who	have	the most	stuck	piles	in	their	offices,	homes,	e-mail,	and	heads.	Most	of	the executives	I	work	with	have	at	least	several	big,	complex,	and	amorphous projects	stacked	either	on	top	of	a	file	cabinet	or	on	a	mental	shelf.	There	always seem	to	be	hobgoblin	thoughts	lurking	inside	them—“If	we	don’t	look	at	or think	about	the	projects,	maybe	they’ll	stay	quiet!” 


Ceasing	negative	imaging	will	always	cause	your	energy	to	increase. 


So	what’s	the	solution?	There’s	always	having	a	drink.	Numb	it.	Dumb	it down.	Notice	what	happens	to	many	people	when	they	get	a	little	alcohol	in	their brain.	It	should	drop	their	energy	immediately,	because	it’s	a	depressant;	often, though,	the	energy	lifts,	at	least	initially.	Why?	The	alcohol	is	depressing something—it’s	shutting	down	the	negative	self-talk	and	uncomfortable	visions that	are	going	on	in	these	folks’	minds.	Of	course	my	energy	will	increase	if	I stop	depressing	myself	with	overwhelming	pictures	of	not	handling	something successfully.	But	the	numbing	solutions	are	temporary	at	best.	The	stuff	doesn’t go	away.	And	unfortunately,	when	we	numb	ourselves,	we	can’t	do	it	selectively


—the	source	of	inspiration	and	enthusiasm	and	personal	energy	also	seems	to	get numbed. 


Intelligent	Dumbing	Down


 
No	matter	how	big	and	tough	a	problem	may	be,	get	rid	of	confusion	by	taking	one	little	step
 
toward	solution.	Do	something. 


 
—George	F.	Nordenholt


There	is	another	solution:	intelligently	dumbing	down	your	brain	by	figuring	out the	next	action.	You’ll	invariably	feel	a	relieving	of	pressure	about	anything	you have	a	commitment	to	change	or	do,	when	you	decide	on	the	very	next	physical action	required	to	move	it	forward.	Nothing,	essentially,	will	change	in	the world.	But	shifting	your	focus	to	something	that	your	mind	perceives	as	a	doable task	will	create	a	real	increase	in	positive	energy,	direction,	and	motivation.	If you	have	truly	captured	all	the	things	that	have	your	attention	during	the	mind sweep,	go	through	the	list	again	now	and	decide	on	the	single	very	next	action	to take	on	every	one	of	them.	Notice	what	happens	to	your	energy. 


Everything	on	your	lists	and	in	your	stacks	is	either	attractive	or	repulsive	to	you—there’s	no neutral	ground	when	it	comes	to	your	stuff. 


You	are	either	attracted	or	repelled	by	the	things	on	your	lists;	there	isn’t	any neutral	territory.	You	are	either	positively	drawn	toward	completing	the	action	or


reluctant	to	think	about	what	it	is	and	resistant	to	getting	involved	in	it.	Often	it’s simply	the	next-action	decision	that	makes	the	difference	between	the	two extremes.	Thinking	and	deciding	require	energy.	And	when	you	notice something	unfinished	in	your	world	but	haven’t	determined	what	the	next	action is	yet,	you’ll	tend	to	be	reminded	of	your	fatigue	and	sense	of	being overwhelmed!	Hence	most	people’s	reaction	to	their	own	lists	and	organizers	is negative—not	because	of	the	contents	per	se,	but	rather	because	sufficient appropriate	thinking	has	yet	to	be	applied	to	them. 


In	following	up	with	people	who	have	begun	to	implement	this	methodology, I’ve	discovered	that	one	of	the	subtler	ways	many	of	them	fall	off	the	wagon	is in	letting	their	action	lists	grow	back	into	lists	of	tasks	or	subprojects	instead	of discrete	next	actions.	They’re	still	ahead	of	most	people	because	they’re	actually writing	things	down,	but	they	often	find	themselves	stuck,	and	procrastinating, because	they’ve	allowed	their	action	lists	to	harbor	items	like:


“Meeting	with	the	banquet	committee” 


“Johnny’s	birthday” 


“Receptionist” 


“Slide	presentation” 


 
You	can	only	cure	retail	but	you	can	prevent	wholesale. 


 
—Brock	Chisholm


In	other	words,	things	have	morphed	back	into	“stuff”	instead	of	starting	at the	action	level.	There	are	no	clear	next	actions	here,	and	anyone	keeping	a	list filled	with	items	like	this	would	send	her	brain	into	overload	every	time	she looked	at	it. 


Is	this	extra	work?	Is	figuring	out	the	next	action	on	your	commitments additional	effort	that	you	don’t	need	to	expend?	No,	of	course	not.	If	you	need	to get	your	car	tuned,	for	instance,	you’re	going	to	have	to	figure	out	that	next action	at	some	point	anyway.	The	problem	is	that	most	people	wait	to	do	it	until the	next	action	is	“Call	the	Auto	Club	for	tow	truck!” 


So	when	do	you	think	most	people	really	make	a	lot	of	their	next-action decisions	about	their	stuff—when	it	shows	up,	or	when	it	blows	up?	And	do	you think	there	might	be	a	difference	in	the	quality	of	their	lives	if	they	handled	this knowledge	work	on	the	front	end	instead	of	the	back?	Which	do	you	think	is	the


more	efficient	way	to	move	through	life—deciding	next	actions	on	your	projects as	soon	as	they	appear	on	your	radar	screen	and	then	efficiently	grouping	them into	categories	of	actions	that	you	get	done	in	certain	uniform	contexts,	or avoiding	thinking	about	what,	exactly,	needs	to	be	done	until	it	 
has
	to	be	done, then	sputtering	through	your	actions	as	you	try	to	catch	up	and	put	out	the	fires? 


Avoiding	action	decisions	until	the	pressure	of	the	last	minute	creates	huge	inefficiencies	and unnecessary	stress. 


That	may	sound	exaggerated,	but	when	I	ask	groups	of	people	to	estimate when	most	of	the	action	decisions	are	made	in	their	companies,	with	few exceptions	they	say,	“When	things	blow	up.”	One	of	our	global	corporate	clients surveyed	its	population	about	sources	of	stress	in	its	culture,	and	the	number	one complaint	was	the	last-minute	crisis	work	consistently	promoted	by	team	leaders who	failed	to	make	appropriate	decisions	on	the	front	end. 


The	Value	of	a	Next-Action	Decision-Making	Standard


I	have	had	several	sophisticated	senior	executives	tell	me	that	installing	“What’s the	next	action?”	as	an	operational	standard	in	their	organization	was transformative	in	terms	of	measurable	performance	output.	It	changed	their culture	permanently	and	significantly	for	the	better. 


Why?	Because	the	question	forces	clarity,	accountability,	productivity,	and empowerment. 


Clarity


Too	many	discussions	end	with	only	a	vague	sense	that	people	know	what	they have	decided	and	are	going	to	do.	But	without	a	clear	conclusion	that	there	 
is
	a next	action,	much	less	what	it	is	and	who’s	got	it,	more	often	than	not	a	lot	of stuff	gets	left	up	in	the	air. 


I	am	frequently	asked	to	facilitate	meetings.	I’ve	learned	the	hard	way	that	no matter	where	we	are	in	the	conversation,	twenty	minutes	before	the	agreed	end time	of	the	discussion	I	must	force	the	question:	“So	what’s	the	next	action here?”	In	my	experience,	there	is	usually	twenty	minutes’	worth	of	clarifying


(and	sometimes	tough	decisions)	still	required	to	come	up	with	an	answer. 


 
Talk	does	not	cook	rice. 


 
—Chinese	proverb


This	is	radical	common	sense—radical	because	it	often	compels	discussion	at deeper	levels	than	people	are	comfortable	with.	“Are	we	serious	about	this?” 


“Do	we	really	know	what	we’re	doing	here?”	“Are	we	really	ready	to	allocate precious	time	and	resources	to	this?”	It’s	very	easy	to	avoid	these	more	relevant levels	of	thinking.	What	prevents	those	issues	from	slipping	away	into amorphous	stuff	is	forcing	the	decision	about	the	next	action.	Some	further conversation,	exploration,	deliberation,	and	negotiation	are	often	needed	to	put the	topic	to	rest.	The	world	is	too	unpredictable	these	days	to	permit	assumptions about	outcomes:	we	need	to	take	responsibility	for	moving	things	to	clarity. 


You	have	to	have	some	experience	of	this	to	really	know	what	I	mean	here.	If you	do,	you’re	probably	saying	to	yourself,	“Yes!”	If	you’re	not	sure	what	I’m talking	about,	I	suggest	that	in	your	next	meeting	with	anyone,	you	end	the conversation	with	the	question,	“So	what’s	the	next	action	here?”	Then	notice what	happens. 


Accountability


The	dark	side	of	collaborative	cultures	is	the	allergy	they	foster	to	holding anyone	responsible	for	having	the	ball.	“Mine	or	yours?”	is	unfortunately	not	in the	common	vocabulary	of	many	such	organizations.	There	is	a	sense	that	that would	be	impolite.	“We’re	all	in	this	together”	is	a	worthy	sentiment,	but	seldom a	reality	in	the	hard-nosed	day-to-day	world	of	work.	Too	many	meetings	end with	a	vague	feeling	among	the	players	that	something	ought	to	happen,	and	the hope	that	it’s	not	their	personal	job	to	make	it	so. 


The	way	I	see	it,	what’s	truly	impolite	is	allowing	people	to	walk	away	from discussions	unclear.	Real	togetherness	of	a	group	is	reflected	by	the responsibility	that	all	take	for	defining	the	real	things	to	do	and	the	specific people	assigned	to	do	them,	so	everyone	is	freed	of	the	angst	of	still-undecided actions. 


Again,	if	you’ve	been	there,	you’ll	know	what	I’m	talking	about.	If	you haven’t,	test	it	out—take	a	small	risk	and	ask,	“So	what’s	the	next	action	on this?”	at	the	end	of	each	discussion	point	in	your	next	staff	meeting,	or	in	your next	family	conversation	around	the	dinner	table. 


Productivity


 
There	are	risks	and	costs	to	a	program	of	action,	but	they	are	far	less	than	the	long-range	risks
 
and	costs	of	comfortable	inaction. 


 
—John	F.	Kennedy


Organizations	naturally	become	more	productive	when	they	model	and	train front-end	next-action	decision	making.	For	all	the	reasons	mentioned, determining	the	required	physical	allocation	of	resources	necessary	to	make something	happen	as	soon	as	the	outcome	has	been	clarified	will	produce	more results	sooner,	and	with	less	effort. 


Productivity	will	improve	only	when	individuals	increase	their	operational	responsiveness.	And in	knowledge	work,	that	means	clarifying	actions	on	the	front	end	instead	of	the	back. 


Learning	to	break	through	the	barriers	of	the	sophisticated	creative	thinking that	can	freeze	activity—that	is,	the	entangled	mental	webs	we	spin—is	a superior	skill.	“Productivity”	has	been	touted	for	decades	as	a	desirable	thing	to improve	in	organizations.	Anything	that	can	help	maximize	output	will	do	that. 


But	in	the	world	of	knowledge	work,	all	the	computers	and	telecom improvements	and	leadership	seminars	on	the	planet	will	make	no	difference	in this	regard	unless	the	individuals	involved	increase	their	operational responsiveness.	And	that	requires	thinking	about	something	that	lands	in	your world	 
before
	you	have	to
.*


Empowerment


Perhaps	the	greatest	benefit	of	adopting	the	next-action	approach	is	that	it dramatically	increases	your	ability	to	make	things	happen,	with	a	concomitant rise	in	your	self-esteem	and	constructive	outlook. 


 
Start	by	doing	what’s	necessary,	then	what’s	possible,	and	suddenly	you	are	doing	the
 
impossible. 


 
—Saint	Francis	of	Assisi


People	are	constantly	doing	things,	but	usually	only	when	they	have	to,	under fire	from	themselves	or	others.	They	get	no	sense	of	winning,	or	of	being	in control,	or	of	cooperating	among	themselves	and	with	their	world.	People	are starving	for	those	experiences. 


The	daily	behaviors	that	define	the	things	that	are	incomplete	and	the	moves that	are	needed	to	complete	them	must	change.	Getting	things	going	of	your	own accord,	before	you’re	forced	to	by	external	pressure	and	internal	stress,	builds	a firm	foundation	of	self-worth	that	will	spread	to	every	aspect	of	your	life.	You are	the	captain	of	your	own	ship;	the	more	you	act	from	that	perspective,	the better	things	will	go	for	you. 


Asking	yourself,	“What’s	the	next	action?”	undermines	the	victim	mentality. 


It	presupposes	that	there	is	a	possibility	of	change,	and	that	there	is	something you	can	do	to	make	it	happen.	That	is	the	assumed	affirmation	in	the	behavior. 


And	these	kinds	of	assumed	affirmations	often	work	more	fundamentally	to build	a	positive	self-image	than	can	repeating,	“I	am	a	powerful,	effective person,	making	things	happen	in	my	life!”	a	thousand	times. 


 
People	are	always	blaming	their	circumstances	for	what	they	are.	I	don’t	believe	in
 
circumstances.	The	people	who	get	on	in	this	world	are	the	people	who	get	up	and	look	for	the
 
circumstances	they	want,	and,	if	they	can’t	find	them,	make	them. 


 
—George	Bernard	Shaw


Is	there	too	much	complaining	in	your	culture?	The	next	time	someone moans	about	something,	try	asking,	“So	what’s	the	next	action?”	People	will complain	only	about	something	that	they	assume	could	be	better	than	it	currently is.	The	action	question	forces	the	issue.	If	it	can	be	changed,	there’s	some	action


that	will	change	it.	If	it	can’t,	it	must	be	considered	part	of	the	landscape	to	be incorporated	in	strategy	and	tactics.	Complaining	is	a	sign	that	someone	isn’t willing	to	risk	moving	on	a	changeable	situation,	or	won’t	consider	the immutable	circumstance	in	his	or	her	plans.	This	is	a	temporary	and	hollow	form of	self-validation. 


Although	my	colleagues	and	I	rarely	promote	our	work	in	this	way,	I	notice people	really	empowering	themselves	every	day	as	we	coach	them	in	applying the	next-action	technique.	It	increases	the	light	in	their	eyes	and	the	lightness	in their	step,	and	a	sparkle	shows	up	in	their	thinking	and	demeanor.	We	are	all already	powerful,	but	deciding	on	and	effectively	managing	the	physical	actions required	to	move	things	forward	seems	to	exercise	that	power	in	ways	that	call forward	the	more	positive	aspects	of	our	nature. 


When	you	start	to	make	things	happen,	you	begin	to	believe	that	you	can make	things	happen.	And	 
that
	makes	things	happen. 


13


The	Power	of	Outcome	Focusing


THE	POWER	OF	
directing	our	mental	and	imaginative	processes	to	create	change	has been	studied	and	promoted	in	thousands	of	contexts—from	early	“positive thinking”	books	to	recent	discoveries	in	advanced	neurophysiology. 


My	own	interest	has	been	in	applying	the	principle	in	terms	of	practical reality:	Does	it	help	get	things	done?	And	if	so,	how	do	we	best	utilize	it	in managing	the	work	of	our	lives?	Can	we	really	use	this	information	in	ways	that allow	us	to	produce	what	we	want	to	have	happen	with	less	effort?	The	answer has	been	a	resounding	yes. 


Focus	and	the	Fast	Track


Over	the	years	I	have	seen	the	application	of	the	method	presented	in	this	book create	profound	results	for	people	in	their	day-to-day	worlds.	As	you	begin	to use	it	habitually	as	your	primary	means	of	addressing	all	situations—from processing	e-mails	to	buying	a	house	or	a	company	to	structuring	meetings	or having	conversations	with	your	kids—your	personal	productivity	can	go	through the	roof. 


Many	of	the	professionals	I	have	worked	with	who	integrated	this	method now	find	themselves	experiencing	enhanced	or	even	new	jobs,	careers,	and lifestyles.	These	processes	really	work	in	the	arena	of	the	ordinary	things	we must	deal	with	daily—the	stuff	of	our	work.	When	you	demonstrate	to	yourself and	to	others	an	increasing	ability	to	get	things	done	“in	the	trenches,”	you probably	won’t	stay	in	the	same	trench	for	very	long.	Of	course,	those	attracted to	implementing	 
Getting	Things	Done
	are	usually	already	on	a	self-development path	and	don’t	assume	that	they’ll	be	doing	the	same	things	a	year	from	now	that they’re	doing	now,	anyway.	But	they	love	the	fact	that	this	method	gets	them


there	faster	and	more	easily.	It’s	interesting	to	note	that	the	people	who	need	this methodology	the	least	are	usually	the	ones	who	engage	with	it	the	quickest	and the	most.	That	puzzled	me	for	a	while	until	I	realized	that	one	of	the	most important	results	of	its	implementation	is	the	relief	of	drag	(as	in	“retarding force”).	Who	is	the	most	interested	in	that?	Those	who	are	the	most	invested	in moving	themselves	forward,	quickly	and	easily. 


It’s	been	inspiring	for	me	to	learn	and	coach	others	how	to	deal	with	the immediate	realities	down	where	the	rubber	meets	the	road—and	how	to	tie	in	the power	of	positive	imagery	to	practical	experiences	in	all	our	daily	lives. 


The	“fast	track”	alluded	to	here	is	a	bit	of	a	misnomer.	For	some,	slowing down,	getting	out	of	the	squirrel	cage,	and	taking	care	of	themselves	may	be	the major	change	precipitated	by	this	methodology. 
*
	The	bottom	line	is	it	makes you	more	conscious,	more	focused,	and	more	capable	of	implementing	the changes	and	results	you	want,	whatever	they	are. 


“Create	a	way	to	spend	more	time	with	my	daughter”	is	as	specific	a	project as	any,	and	equally	demanding	of	a	next	action	to	be	determined.	Having	the vague,	gnawing	sense	that	you	“should”	do	something	about	your	relationship with	your	daughter,	and	not	actually	doing	anything,	can	be	a	killer.	I	often	work with	people	who	are	willing	to	acknowledge	the	real	things	of	their	lives	at	this level	as	“incompletes”—to	write	them	down,	define	real	projects	about	them, and	ensure	that	next	actions	are	decided	on—until	the	finish	line	is	crossed.	That is	real	productivity,	perhaps	in	its	most	awesome	manifestation. 


The	Significance	of	Applied	Outcome	Thinking


What	I	want	to	emphasize	now	is	how	learning	to	process	the	details	of	our	work and	lives	with	this	clear	and	consistent	system	can	affect	us	and	others	in significant	ways	we	may	not	expect. 


Defining	specific	projects	and	next	actions	that	address	real	quality-of-life	issues	is	productivity at	its	best. 


As	I’ve	said,	employing	next-action	decision	making	results	in	clarity, productivity,	accountability,	and	empowerment.	Exactly	the	same	results	happen when	you	hold	yourself	to	the	discipline	of	identifying	the	real	results	you	want and,	more	specifically,	the	projects	you	need	to	define	in	order	to	produce	them. 


It’s	all	connected.	You	can’t	really	define	the	right	action	until	you	know	the outcome	you’re	after,	and	your	outcome	is	disconnected	from	reality	if	you’re not	clear	about	what	you	need	to	do	physically	to	make	it	happen.	You	can	get	at it	from	either	direction,	and	you	must,	to	get	things	done. 


As	Steven	Snyder,	an	expert	in	whole-brain	learning	and	a	friend	of	mine,	put it,	“There	are	only	two	problems	in	life:	(1)	you	know	what	you	want,	and	you don’t	know	how	to	get	it;	and/or	(2)	you	don’t	know	what	you	want.”	If	that’s true	(and	I	think	it	is)	then	there	are	only	two	solutions:


Make	it	up. 


Make	it	happen. 


We	are	constantly	creating	and	fulfilling. 


This	can	be	construed	from	the	models	of	yin/yang,	right	brain/left	brain, creator/destroyer,	visionary/implementer—or	whatever	equivalent	framework works	best	for	you.	The	truth	is,	our	energy	as	human	beings	seems	to	have	a dualistic	and	teleological	reality—we	create	and	identify	with	things	that	aren’t yet	real	on	all	the	levels	we	experience;	and	when	we	do,	we	recognize	how	to restructure	our	current	world	to	morph	it	into	the	new	one,	and	experience	an impetus	to	make	it	so. 


Things	that	have	your	attention	need	your	 
in
 tention	engaged.	“What	does	this mean	to	me?”	“Why	is	it	here?”	“What	do	I	want	to	have	be	true	about	this?” 


(“What’s	the	desired	outcome?”)	Everything	you	experience	as	incomplete	must have	a	reference	point	for	“complete.” 


Once	you’ve	decided	that	there	is	something	to	be	changed	and	a	mold	to	fill, you	ask	yourself,	“How	do	I	now	make	this	happen?”	and/or	“What	resources	do I	need	to	allocate	to	make	it	happen?”	(“What’s	the	next	action?”) By	this	point	you’ve	probably	noticed	that	 
Getting	Things	Done	
 is	not	some new	technology	or	invention—it	simply	makes	 
explicit
	the	principles	at	work within	what	we	all	do	 
implicitly
.	But	with	that	awareness,	you	can	then	leverage those	principles	consciously	to	create	more	elegant	results. 


 
Life	affords	no	higher	pleasure	than	that	of	surmounting	difficulties,	passing	from	one	step	of
 
success	to	another,	forming	new	wishes,	and	seeing	them	gratified. 


 
—Dr.	Samuel	Johnson


Your	life	and	work	are	made	up	of	outcomes	and	actions	that	you	engage	in more	or	less	consciously.	Whether	they	are	merely	less-than-conscious	responses to	your	environment	or	more	conscious	results	of	your	directed	focus	is	the choice	you	will	always	have.	If	you	have	any	intention	to	expand	your experiences	and	expressions	beyond	simply	being	at	the	mercy	of	the	world	as	it comes	at	you,	the	opportunity	is	there	to	recognize,	develop,	and	master	the	art of	getting	things	done.	The	challenge	will	continually	be	to	apply	the	two essential	elements	of	this	art:	defining	what	 
done
	means	and	what	 
doing
	looks like.	This	is	not	always	that	easy,	especially	when	dealing	with	some	of	the	more subtle	and	sublime	areas	of	your	life	experience;	but	without	challenges,	you would	never	learn	or	grow. 


 
Wisdom	consists	not	so	much	in	knowing	what	to	do	in	the	ultimate	as	in	knowing	what	to	do
 
next. 


 
—Herbert	Hoover


The	good	news	is	that	when	your	operational	behavior	is	grooved	to	engage with	everything	that	comes	your	way,	at	all	levels,	based	upon	those	dynamics,	a deep	alignment	occurs,	and	wondrous	things	emerge.	You	become	highly productive.	You	make	things	up,	and	you	make	them	happen. 


The	Magic	of	Mastering	the	Mundane


People	often	wonder	how	I	can	sit	with	them	at	their	desks,	often	for	hours	on end,	as	they	empty	their	drawers,	unpack	all	their	unprocessed	e-mails,	and painstakingly	go	through	the	minutiae	of	stuff	that	they	have	let	accumulate	in their	minds	and	their	physical	and	virtual	spaces.	Aside	from	the	common embarrassment	they	feel	about	the	volume	of	their	irresponsibly	dealt-with details,	they	assume	I	should	be	bored	to	tears.	Quite	the	contrary.	Much	to	my own	surprise,	I	find	it	to	be	some	of	the	most	engaging	work	I	do	with	people.	I know	the	release	and	relief	and	freedom	that	sit	on	the	other	side	of	dealing	with these	things	effectively.	I	know	that	we	all	need	practice	and	support	and	a


strong,	clear	focus	to	get	through	them,	until	we	have	the	built-in	standards	and behaviors	we	need	to	engage	with	them	as	they	demand.	Every	time	I	notice	a client	identifying	something	in	his	environment	or	mind	that	is	pulling	on	him and	in	a	few	moments	he	processes	it	to	silence,	I	know	he’s	deepening	a critically	important	pattern	of	behavior.	And	I	know	how	significant	a	change these	people	may	then	experience	in	their	relationships	with	their	bosses,	their partners,	their	spouses,	their	kids,	and	themselves	over	the	next	few	hours	and (we	hope)	days	and	years. 


It’s	not	boring.	It’s	some	of	the	best	work	I	do. 


Multilevel	Outcome	Management









The	challenge	is	to	marry	high-level	idealistic	focus	to	the	mundane	activity	of	life.	In	the	end they	require	the	same	thinking. 


I’m	in	the	focus	business.	As	a	consultant,	coach,	and	educator	I	ask	simple questions	that	often	elicit	very	creative	and	intelligent	responses	from	others (and	even	myself!),	which	in	turn	add	value	to	the	situation	and	work	at	hand. 


People	aren’t	any	smarter	after	these	sessions	than	they	were	before—they	just direct	and	utilize	their	intelligence	more	productively. 


 
An	idealist	believes	that	the	short	run	doesn’t	count.	A	cynic	believes	the	long	run	doesn’t
 
matter.	A	realist	believes	that	what	is	done	or	left	undone	in	the	short	run	determines	the	long
 
run. 


 
—Sydney	J.	Harris


What’s	unique	about	the	practical	focus	of	GTD	is	the	combination	of effectiveness	and	efficiency	that	these	methods	can	bring	to	every	level	of	your reality.	There	are	lots	of	inspirational	sources	for	the	high-level	“purpose,	values, vision”	kind	of	thinking,	and	many	more	mundane	tools	for	getting	hold	of smaller	details	such	as	phone	numbers	and	appointments	and	grocery	lists.	The world	has	been	rather	barren,	however,	of	practices	that	relate	equally	to	both levels	and	tie	them	together. 


“What	does	this	mean	to	me?”	“What	do	I	want	to	be	true	about	it?”	“What’s the	next	step	required	to	make	that	happen?”	These	are	the	cornerstone	questions we	must	answer,	at	some	point,	about	everything.	This	thinking,	and	the	tools that	support	it,	will	serve	you	in	ways	you	may	not	yet	imagine. 


The	Power	of	Natural	Planning


The	value	of	natural	project	planning	is	that	it	provides	an	integrated,	flexible, aligned	way	to	think	through	any	situation.	Whereas	the	basic	five-step	process of	capturing,	clarifying,	organizing,	reflecting,	and	engaging	is	a	coherent	way	to achieve	stability	across	the	whole	spectrum	of	your	life,	natural	planning produces	relaxed,	focused	control	in	more	specific	areas. 


Challenging	the	purpose	of	anything	you	may	be	doing	is	healthy	and	mature. 


Being	comfortable	making	up	visions	of	success,	before	the	methods	are	clear,	is a	phenomenal	trait	to	strengthen.	Being	willing	to	have	ideas,	good	or	bad,	and to	express	and	capture	all	of	them	without	judgment	is	critical	for	fully	accessing creative	intelligence.	Honing	multiple	ideas	and	types	of	information	into components,	sequences,	and	priorities	aimed	toward	a	specific	outcome	is	a necessary	mental	discipline.	And	deciding	on	and	taking	real	next	actions—


actually	moving	on	something	in	the	physical	world—is	the	essence	of productivity. 


 
I	respect	the	man	who	knows	distinctly	what	he	wishes.	The	greater	part	of	all	mischief	in	the
 
world	arises	from	the	fact	that	men	do	not	sufficiently	understand	their	own	aims.	They	have
 
undertaken	to	build	a	tower,	and	spend	no	more	labor	on	the	foundation	than	would	be
 
necessary	to	erect	a	hut. 


 
—Johann	Wolfgang	von	Goethe


Being	able	to	bring	all	these	ingredients	together,	with	appropriate	timing	and balance,	is	perhaps	the	major	component	of	competence	for	this	new millennium.	But	it’s	not	yet	the	norm	of	much	professional	and	personal behavior;	far	from	it.	It’s	still	a	daunting	task	to	apply	this	awareness	to	all	the aspects	of	one’s	life.	The	natural	planning	model	is	natural,	but	in	many	cases	it is	not	automatic. 


But	even	when	only	portions	of	the	model	are	inserted,	tremendous	benefit


ensues.	The	feedback	I’ve	gotten	over	the	years	with	this	model	has	continued	to validate	that	even	the	slightest	increase	in	the	use	of	natural	planning	can	bring significant	improvement.	To	see	brainstorming	about	almost	every	aspect	of their	lives	becoming	a	standard	for	so	many	people	is	terrific.	To	hear	from executives	who	have	used	the	model	as	a	way	to	frame	key	meetings	and discussions	and	have	gotten	great	value	from	doing	so	is	gratifying.	It	all	just affirms	that	the	way	our	minds	naturally	work	is	what	we	should	focus	on	to make	anything	happen	in	the	physical	world. 


The	model	is	simply	the	basic	principle	of	determining	outcomes	and	actions for	everything	we	consider	to	be	our	work.	When	those	two	key	focus	points become	the	norm	in	our	day-to-day	lives,	the	baseline	for	productivity	moves	to another	level.	The	addition	of	brainstorming—the	most	creative	means	of expressing	and	capturing	ideas,	perspectives,	and	details	about	projects—makes for	an	elegant	set	of	behaviors	for	staying	relaxed	and	getting	things	done. 


Shifting	to	a	Positive	Organizational	Culture


It	doesn’t	take	a	big	change	to	increase	the	productivity	standards	of	a	group.	I continually	get	feedback	indicating	that	with	a	little	implementation	by	a	few key	people,	immediately	things	start	to	happen	more	quickly	and	more	easily. 


The	constructive	evaluation	of	activities,	asset	allocations,	communications, policies,	and	procedures	against	purposes	and	intended	outcomes	has	become increasingly	critical	for	every	organization	I	know	of.	The	challenges	to	our companies	continue	to	mount,	with	pressures	coming	these	days	from globalization,	competition,	technology,	shifting	markets,	erratic	economic swings,	and	raised	standards	of	performance	and	production,	making outcome/action	thinking	a	required	twenty-first-century	behavior. 


“What	do	you	want	to	have	happen	in	this	meeting?”	“What	is	the	purpose	of this	form?”	“What	would	the	ideal	person	for	this	job	be	able	to	do?”	“What	do we	want	to	accomplish	with	this	software?”	These	and	a	multitude	of	other, similar	questions	are	still	sorely	lacking	in	many	quarters.	There’s	plenty	of	talk in	the	big	meetings	that	sounds	good,	but	learning	to	ask,	“Why	are	we	doing this?”	and	“What	will	it	look	like	when	it’s	done	successfully?”	and	to	apply	the answers	at	the	day-to-day,	operational	level— 
that
	will	create	profound	results. 


Commonly	the	productivity	issues	expressed	at	senior	levels	in	companies we	work	with	are	centered	around	e-mail	and	meetings—too	many	of	both,	and


too	much	time	having	to	be	spent	dealing	with	seemingly	nonstrategic	stuff within	them.	It	is	very	easy	for	these	communication	media	to	morph	into	an unproductive	maelstrom,	draining	energy.	Unfocused	meetings	lead	to unnecessary	e-mails,	which	then	produce	the	need	for	clarifying	meetings,	which produce	more	e-mail,	and	so	on.	Both	e-mail	and	meetings	are	critical	to organizational	life,	but	too	often	they	fall	into	the	category	of	necessary	evils, primarily	because	there	is	a	lack	of	rigor	relative	to	their	purposes	and	desired outcomes. 


 
A	vision	without	a	task	is	but	a	dream;	a	task	without	a	vision	is	but	drudgery;	a	vision	and	a
 
task	is	the	hope	of	the	world. 


 
—From	a	church	in	Sussex,	England,	ca.	1730


Empowerment	naturally	ensues	for	individuals	as	they	move	from


complaining	and	victim	modalities	into	outcomes	and	actions	defined	for direction.	When	that	becomes	the	standard	in	a	group,	it	creates	significant improvement	in	the	atmosphere	as	well	as	in	the	output.	There	are	enough	other problems	and	opportunities	to	be	concerned	with;	negativity	and	passive resistance	need	to	continually	give	way	to	a	focus	on	the	desired	results	at	the appropriate	horizons. 


The	microcosm	of	how	people	deal	with	their	in-trays,	e-mail,	and	the conversation	with	others	will	be	reflected	in	the	macro-reality	of	their	culture and	organization.	If	balls	are	dropped,	if	decisions	about	what	to	do	are	resisted on	the	front	end,	if	not	all	the	open	loops	are	managed	responsibly,	that	will	be magnified	in	the	group,	and	the	culture	will	sustain	a	stressful	fire-and-crisis siege	mentality.	If,	in	contrast,	individuals	are	implementing	the	principles	of 
Getting	Things	Done
,	the	culture	will	expect	and	experience	a	new	standard	of high	performance.	Problems	and	conflicts	will	not	go	away—they	remain inherent	as	you	attempt	to	change	(or	maintain)	anything	in	this	world.	The operational	behaviors	of	this	book,	however,	will	provide	the	focus	and framework	for	addressing	them	in	the	most	productive	way. 


I	am	often	asked,	“How	can	this	methodology	improve	an	organization?”	In fact,	all	the	principles	I’ve	put	forward	are	as	applicable	to	an	enterprise	as	they are	to	an	individual.	Capturing	what	has	a	group’s	attention,	getting	clarity	about the	inherent	outcomes	desired	and	actions	required,	regularly	reviewing	status and	incorporating	new	realities,	and	consistently	recalibrating	and	reallocating


resources—all	are	core	best	practices	for	any	team	or	company.	But	just	like	you can’t	teach	an	organization	to	read,	you	can’t	expect	to	“improve	an organization,”	per	se,	with	 
Getting	Things	Done
.	To	function	at	all	in	a knowledge	economy,	most	organizations	need	people	who	read;	the	culture	can provide	training	and	support	to	ensure	that	occurs.	They	will	also	need	people who	have	mastered	the	art	of	effectively	getting	things	done,	to	operate	at	the new	levels	being	demanded	in	this	century.	When	that	is	manifest	in	a	company through	its	expectations,	training,	and	modeling,	from	the	top	down,	the	results in	organizational	output	can	be	profound. 


14


GTD	and	Cognitive	Science


SINCE	THE	FIRST	
edition	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
	was	published,	significant	research in	the	field	of	social	and	cognitive	psychology	has	documented	and	validated	the efficacy	of	the	principles	that	underlie	the	methodology.	Until	recently	these practices	could	be	confirmed	only	experientially	and	anecdotally.	Anyone	who had	ever	applied	the	GTD	techniques	of	capturing,	clarifying,	organizing,	and reflecting	on	the	resulting	inventory	acknowledged	the	same	results:	greater clarity,	control,	and	focus,	along	with	all	the	resulting	personal	and organizational	benefits	associated	with	that	experience.	If	you	have	to	any degree	begun	to	implement	the	practices	I	have	put	forward	so	far,	you	will	no doubt	have	noticed	some	positive	increase	in	your	own	demeanor. 


Rigorous	studies	compiled	by	experts	in	the	field	of	cognitive	science, ranging	from	personal	to	organizational	aspects,	have	begun	to	provide	data	that gives	foundational	support	to	this	methodology	and	why	and	how	its improvements	are	produced.	In	some	sense	this	may	seem	like	someone’s proving	that	gravity	exists	after	we’ve	all	been	experiencing	it	and	dealing	with it	since	we	were	conscious.	But	from	another	perspective	it	gives	perhaps	needed credence	to	the	advice	for	mastering	workflow	I’ve	put	forward	here,	and	to	why such	seemingly	simple	processes	and	behaviors	described	in	 
Getting	Things
 
Done	
 have	such	a	compelling	result. 


The	supporting	research	has	emerged	within	several	frameworks	and categories:


Positive	psychology


Distributed	cognition:	the	value	of	an	external	mind


Relieving	the	cognitive	load	of	incompletions


Flow	theory


Self-leadership	theory


Goal-striving	via	implementation	intentions


Psychological	capital	(PsyCap)


GTD	and	Positive	Psychology


In	2000	Martin	Seligman	took	on	the	presidency	of	the	American	Psychological Association.	For	his	presidential	address	he	challenged	the	profession	to	shift	its focus	away	from	simply	describing,	studying,	and	diagnosing	the	negative aspects	of	the	human	condition	and	to	begin	devoting	more	attention	to	the positive	aspects	of	what	it	means	to	be	human.	Of	course,	his	message	was simply	a	more	mainstream	embodiment	of	Abraham	Maslow’s	ideas	from	the mid-twentieth	century	of	personal	fulfillment	as	the	richest	arena	of	psychology. 


But	since	Seligman’s	call	to	action,	positive	psychology	has	blossomed	into	a full-fledged	component	of	the	field. 


The	research	generated	by	this	change	in	perspective	has	been	conducted	at both	the	basic	and	applied	levels.	It	has	added	to	our	understanding	of	a	myriad of	psychological	constructs	and	has	been	used	to	improve	the	lives	of	many. 


Positive	psychology	is	a	vast	discipline,	but	a	sampling	of	its	relevant	aspects includes	happiness,	psychological	well-being,	flow/optimal	experience, meaning,	passion,	purpose,	authentic	leadership,	strengths,	values,	character,	and virtue.	Graduate	education	programs	in	these	areas	have	emerged	across	the world	and	continue	to	expand. 


How	is	this	relevant	to	 
Getting	Things	Done
?	GTD	is	more	than	just	a	way	to manage	tasks	and	projects.	In	many	respects	it	is	more	concerned	with fundamental	issues	of	meaningful	work,	mindful	living,	and	psychological	well-being	than	simply	offering	methods	for	being	more	efficient	or	productive	for their	own	sake.	The	emphasis	(and	requirement)	of	outcome	thinking	concerning the	stuff	we	encounter,	as	well	as	achieving	a	functional	way	to	capture,	clarify, organize,	and	assess	the	results	so	we	can	think	more	clearly,	describes	the	core practices	that	truly	make	the	actual	experience	of	life	better. 


That	said	(and	experienced,	if	you	have!),	it	is	still	quite	interesting	to examine	some	of	the	various	theories	and	studies	that	have	focused	on	the	more specific	aspects	of	the	relationship	of	our	psyche,	our	well-being,	and	our performance—all	with	close	correlation	to	the	principles	and	practices	of	 
Getting
 
Things	Done. 


Distributed	Cognition:	The	Value	of	an	External	Mind Your	mind	is	for	 
having
	ideas,	not	for	 
holding
	them. 


In	2008	a	fascinating	paper,	“Getting	Things	Done:	The	Science	Behind	Stress-Free	Productivity,”	was	published	in	a	professional	journal	by	two	researchers	in Belgium	who	analyzed	my	methodology	specifically	from	the	perspective	of verifiable	data	and	working	theories	from	cognitive	science
.*
	Their	brilliant	and detailed	assessments	and	conclusions	extend	far	beyond	what	I	can	do	justice	to here	(the	paper	is	worthy	of	multiple	reads),	but	suffice	it	to	say	that	its	thesis	is profound:	your	mind	is	designed	to	have	ideas,	based	upon	pattern	detection,	but it	isn’t	designed	to	remember	much	of	anything! 


Because	of	the	way	the	mind	developed,	it	is	brilliant	at	recognition,	but terrible	at	recall.	You	can	glance	at	today’s	calendar	and	in	the	course	of	a	few seconds	get	a	coherent	sense	of	the	day	and	its	contents	and	contexts.	But	you’d have	a	terrible	time	trying	to	recall	the	contents	of	the	next	fourteen	days	on	your calendar	merely	from	memory. 


A	wonderful	exposition	of	the	new	discoveries	in	the	science	of	cognition, related	to	our	limited	capacity	to	manage	and	maintain	awareness	of	relevant data	in	the	information	age,	and	the	necessity	of	building	and	utilizing	an


“external	brain,”	was	put	forward	by	Daniel	Levitin	in	his	book	 
The	Organized
 
Mind
. 
*


The	bottom	line	is	that	when	you	use	your	memory	as	your	organizing system	(as	most	everyone	on	the	planet	still	does,	for	most	of	what	they’re	doing to	manage	their	lives),	your	mind	will	effectively	become	overwhelmed	and incompetent,	because	you	are	demanding	of	it	intense	work	for	which	it	is	not well	equipped. 


If,	however,	you	are	able	to	bring	its	attention	to	bear	appropriately	and efficiently	to	create	the	optimal	triggers	for	later	thinking	and	action	(such	as reading	an	e-mail,	then	setting	a	meeting	on	your	calendar	to	deal	with	its	issue or	opportunity),	then	it	gets	to	relax	and	rely	on	the	automatic	and	elegant thinking	it	can	do	when	presented	specific	things	on	which	to	focus,	in	the proper	context.	You	trust	you’ll	see	that	meeting	on	your	calendar	sufficiently	in advance	to	be	prepared	for	it. 


GTD	provides	the	methodology	for	identifying	those	things	that	need	focused


attention,	applying	it	efficiently	on	the	front	end	and	organizing	the	triggers	for appropriate	thinking	at	the	right	time.	The	Belgian	researchers	crafted	an	elegant exposition	of	the	science	behind	efficiently	maximizing	what	our	minds	are	good for	and	what	they’re	not,	creating	a	framework	for	how	we	can	more	effectively produce	profound	results	with	minimal	thinking! 
*


Relieving	the	Cognitive	Load	of	Incompletions


Much	fruitful	work	has	been	done	in	the	early	part	of	this	century	by	Dr.	Roy Baumeister	et	al.	in	determining	the	effects	on	consciousness	of	unfinished	items


—goals,	projects,	outcomes,	etc.—that	have	been	committed	to	but	not	yet completed.	His	conclusions	simply	verify	what	I’ve	experienced	for	decades: uncompleted	tasks	take	up	room	in	the	mind,	which	then	limits	clarity	and focus
.*


But	interestingly,	in	alignment	with	the	GTD	practices,	Baumeister	has	also proven	that	completion	of	such	items	is	not	required	to	relieve	that	burden	on	the psyche.	What	is	needed	is	a	trusted	plan	that	ensures	forward	engagement	will happen. 
*


In	Baumeister’s	model	merely	determining	the	next	action	to	fulfill	a commitment	is	a	sufficient	end	result	of	“planning”—as	long	as	the	trigger	or reminder	is	parked	in	a	place	that	we	trust	we’ll	look	within	a	reasonable	amount of	time.	My	thinking	and	model	were	heavily	cited	in	his	wonderful	book 
Willpower
,	which	positions	them	within	a	rich	context	of	managing	the	mental


“muscle”	we	must	continually	employ,	especially	in	knowledge	work. 
*


Flow	Theory


One	of	the	more	popular	concepts	in	this	field,	which	has	often	been	associated with	GTD,  
 
 has	been	the	idea	of	“flow”—the	state	of	optimal	performance	and engagement.	Flow	is	what	the	athletes	refer	to	as	being	“in	the	zone,”	and	it	can be	closely	correlated	with	the	idea	of	“mind	like	water,”	which	I	introduced	in the	first	chapter. 


The	flow	experience	is	marked	by	various	distinct	components,	several	of which	are	already	implemented	by	the	GTD	approach.	To	experience	flow,	it	is necessary	that	your	skills	in	a	given	task	match	the	challenge	at	hand.	If	the


challenge	exceeds	your	requisite	skill	level,	you	will	experience	anxiety,	and	if your	skills	exceed	the	challenge,	you	will	most	likely	feel	bored	during	the activity
.*	
Flow	is	usually	accompanied	by	complete	concentration	on	the	given task,	and	you	typically	feel	in	control	and	have	clear	goals	in	sight.	Individuals in	flow	generally	have	an	idea	of	what	is	coming	next	and	receive	immediate feedback	throughout	the	task.	They	also	experience	a	merging	of	action	and awareness,	during	which	they	lose	both	their	self-consciousness	and	their	sense of	time.	They	are	usually	intrinsically	motivated,	performing	an	activity	for	its own	sake	and	not	for	an	external	reward.	Those	in	flow	often	are	performing	at an	optimal	level	and	are	completely	absorbed	in	what	they	are	doing.	Once individuals	have	experienced	flow,	they	are	often	compelled	to	repeat	the activities	that	enabled	them	to	experience	it. 


You	can	only	put	your	conscious	attention	on	one	thing	at	a	time.	If	that’s	all	that	 
has
	your attention,	you’re	in	flow. 


While	flow	was	originally	conceptualized	by	investigating	leisure	activities (e.g.,	rock	climbing,	painting),	Csikszentmihalyi	and	LeFevr
e*	
found	that individuals	are	engaged	in	high-skill,	high-challenge	activities	more	often	at work	(54	percent)	than	at	leisure	(18	percent).	Csikszentmihalyi	explained	that many	jobs	inherently	contain	the	type	of	goals	and	feedback	structures	that would	allow	one	to	experience	flow	at	work,	a	phenomenon	that	is	associated with	higher	levels	of	subjective	well-being
.*


The	GTD	approach	includes	several	conditions	of	the	flow	experience—


namely,	having	clear	goals	and	receiving	feedback.	GTD’s	emphasis	on	focusing attention	on	one	task	at	a	time	is	closely	associated	with	the	crux	of	the	flow experience:	being	completely	absorbed	in	a	singular	activity,	in	which	one’s stimulus	field	is	limited.	Adopting	GTD	enables	individuals	to	find	flow	more easily	in	their	work	and	personal	lives.	By	getting	tasks	out	of	the	mind	and	into an	external	system,	they	can	more	easily	see	and	track	progress,	which	is	a	form of	feedback.	Having	a	complete	picture	of	one’s	commitments	in	work	and	life can	help	individuals	make	better	decisions	about	what	to	pay	attention	to	in	any given	moment,	which,	in	turn,	will	allow	them	to	engage	more	fully	in	the	task	at hand,	making	flow	a	more	likely	outcome. 


Self-Leadership	Theory


Self-leadership	can	be	traced	back	to	the	mid-1980s	as	an	expansion	of	the concept	of	self-management.	According	to	Neck	and	Manz
,*
	self-leadership	is	a process	through	which	individuals	control	their	own	behavior,	influencing themselves	through	the	use	of	specific	behavioral	and	cognitive	strategies.	The popularity	of	self-leadership	has	soared	via	a	large	number	of	practitioner-oriented	books,	theoretical	and	empirical	journal	publications,	inclusion	in management	and	leadership	textbooks,	and	the	growth	of	self-leadership	training programs. 


The	strategies	that	comprise	self-leadership	are	commonly	separated	into three	categories:	behavior-focused,	natural	reward,	and	constructive	thought pattern. 


 
Behavior-focused	strategies
	are	usually	centered	on	raising	individual	self-awareness	with	the	goal	of	facilitating	behavioral	management.	In	the	context	of work,	these	strategies	commonly	place	an	emphasis	on	doing	necessary	but unpleasant	tasks.	This	family	of	strategies	includes	self-observation,	self–goal setting,	self-reward,	self-punishment,	and	self-cuing. 


 
Natural	reward	strategies
	are	intended	to	create	situations	in	which	an individual	is	motivated	or	rewarded	by	the	activity	itself.	These	strategies revolve	around	reshaping	unpleasant	tasks	or	activities	to	make	them	more enjoyable	and	deliberately	focusing	attention	on	the	inherently	rewarding	aspects of	the	activities. 


Providing	yourself	the	right	cues,	which	you	will	notice	at	the	right	time,	about	the	right	things, is	a	core	practice	of	stress-free	productivity. 


 
Constructive	thought	pattern	strategies
	relate	specifically	to	creating	ways	of thinking	that	can	positively	impact	performance.	Examples	of	these	strategies include	self-talk,	mental	imagery,	and	replacing	dysfunctional	beliefs	and assumptions. 


There	are	aspects	of	GTD	that	connect	to	each	of	the	three	overall	types	of self-leadership.	One	of	the	most	evident	is	the	concept	of	self-cuing.	A	well-constructed	GTD	system	provides	for	a	physical	artifact	that	spurs	future	action. 


The	GTD	methodology	also	embodies	the	component	of	natural	reward strategies.	There	is	a	sense	of	pleasure	in	identifying	small	yet	annoying	tasks


and	taking	care	of	them—something	a	thorough	mental	RAM	dump	and	some free	time	certainly	make	possible.	Finally,	a	key	element	of	GTD	is	the	mental component	of	thinking	of	your	work	not	simply	as	a	series	of	large	projects	but more	directly	as	concrete	next	actions.	This	shift	from	a	defeatist/overwhelmed attitude	to	the	motivational	state	that	enables	you	to	move	forward	on	such	tasks is	a	great	example	of	shifting	your	mind-set	in	a	positive	way. 


Using	self-leadership	strategies	has	been	shown	to	improve	people’s	sense	of self-efficacy,	and	self-efficacy	is	one	of	the	most	well-researched	constructs when	it	comes	to	organizational	psychology.	It	has	been	connected	to	job satisfaction,	job	performance,	and	other	positive	organizational	behaviors	for both	traditional	employees	and	entrepreneurs. 


Goal-Striving/Attainment	Via	Implementation	Intentions


Goals	(desired	outcomes)	are	a	vital	part	of	life,	and	GTD	can	serve	to	facilitate both	personal	and	professional	goals.	Gollwitzer	and	Oettingen	have	conducted	a major	line	of	research	on	goal	achievement,	incorporating	the	idea	of


“implementation	intentions.” 
*
	In	a	nutshell	they	argue	that	the	best	way	to ensure	goal	striving	(taking	actions	toward	a	stated	goal)	is	to	create	a	cause-and-effect	link	in	your	mind	about	when	certain	goal-relevant	actions	will	be taken.	When	you	make	plans	(implementation	intentions)	ahead	of	time	and decide	what	actions	will	be	carried	out	in	which	contexts,	the	proper	behavior	is nearly	automatically	enacted	instead	of	being	drawn	from	your	limited	reserve	of willpower.	In	other	words,	if	you	can	trust	that	something	you	will	more	or	less do	automatically	will	provide	sufficient	direction	and	juice	to	move	you	toward your	outcome,	you’ll	have	that	juice	when	needed.	It	won’t	be	depleted	by	your constant	worrying	or	thinking	about	what	you	should	do	and	when. 


GTD	and	implementation	intentions	are	linked	through	using	the	system	as the	trigger	or	prompt	for	taking	outcome-directed	action.	For	example,	you	could set	the	implementation	intention,	“When	I’m	in	my	office	with	more	than	an hour	of	free	time	and	a	high	level	of	energy,	I’ll	look	at	my	task	list	and	select something	challenging	and	important	to	work	on.”	Or,	“When	it	is	Sunday afternoon	I	will	conduct	a	Weekly	Review.”	Or,	“When	I’m	feeling	flustered	and overwhelmed	I’ll	do	a	mental	RAM	dump.”	The	number	of	such	possible implementation	intentions	is	truly	endless. 


Psychological	Capital	(PsyCap)


Psychological	capital	(PsyCap)	is	a	relatively	new	framework	within	which organizational	psychologists	are	beginning	to	evaluate	the	overall	resourceful state	of	workers	and	its	effect.	It	consists	of	four	definable	aspects:	self-efficacy, optimism,	resilience,	and	hope. 


 
Self-efficacy
	is	the	confidence	to	take	on	and	devote	the	necessary	effort	to succeed	at	challenging	tasks. 


 
Optimism
	involves	making	positive	attributions	about	succeeding	now	and in	the	future. 


 
Hope
	means	persevering	toward	goals	and,	when	necessary,	redirecting paths	to	those	goals. 


 
Resilience
	involves	bouncing	back	to	an	original—or	even	better—state	of being	after	facing	adversity	and	problems. 


Individually	each	of	these	variables	can	predict	various	outcomes	to	a	certain degree.	For	example,	someone’s	degree	of	optimism	can	correlate	statistically with	particular	results	or	behaviors.	However,	when	these	four	components	are considered	together	in	what	psychologists	now	call	PsyCap,	you	can	predict much	more	than	merely	the	sum	of	the	effects	of	its	component	elements.	In	its relatively	short	history	as	a	construct,	PsyCap	has	been	connected	to	many positive	individual	and	organizational	outcomes,	such	as	job	performanc
e*
, 
	*


and	psychological	well-being. 
*


PsyCap	is	more	of	a	description	of	a	state	than	a	trait	itself—that	is,	it	is something	that	can	change	or	be	changed,	developed,	or	undermined,	almost minute	to	minute,	as	in	the	example	of	one’s	mood.	In	familiar	terms	it	would reflect	the	difference	between	your	experiencing	a	good	day	or	a	bad	day.	Are you	feeling	on	top	of	your	game,	or	buried	by	it?	The	good	news	is	that	such states	are	malleable—you	can	do	things	that	can	change	and	improve	them without	having	to	change	some	inherent	aspect	of	yourself. 


 
Getting	Things	Done	
 relates	directly	to	all	four	ingredients	of	a	high	PsyCap and	its	intended	results.	By	enabling	people	to	create	and	maintain	a	complete picture	of	their	commitments	to	themselves	and	others	in	order	to	make	good decisions	about	what	to	do	(or	not	do)	at	any	given	moment,	it	automatically builds	a	sense	of	confidence	and	control	( 
self-efficacy
).	Simply	identifying	all open	loops	and	moving	them	from	memory	to	an	external	mind	while


systematically	identifying	concrete	and	doable	next	actions	is	a	pure	exercise	in self-control	and	directedness.	An	individual	utilizing	GTD	knows	exactly	what needs	to	be	done	and	exactly	what	action	he	can	take	to	achieve	it,	given	the restrictions	of	available	time,	energy,	and	contextual	restraints. 


Adopting	GTD	sets	people	up	for	greater	 
optimism
	because	it	enables	them	to draw	connections	between	the	successful	completion	of	projects	and	their	own purposeful	and	goal-directed	efforts.	Individuals	identify	meaningful	projects, articulate	the	next	steps	needed	to	complete	them,	and	then	ideally	follow through	the	process	until	the	project	is	completed.	As	each	“win”	is	achieved,	it produces	greater	capacity	for	making	more	positive	commitments. 


In	addition,	the	focus	on	front-end	decision	making	in	GTD—doing	“the work	to	define	the	work”—can	be	viewed	as	an	exercise	in	both	aspects	of	 
hope
 (setting	goals	and	identifying	pathways	to	those	goals).	Individuals	set	goals (“What	does	‘done’	look	like?”)	and	identify	the	tasks	needed	to	achieve	those goals	(“What’s	the	next	action?”)	during	this	front-end	decision-making	process. 


While	no	empirical	data	yet	exists	for	the	idea	that	those	individuals	who utilize	GTD	are	more	successful	in	recovering	from	failure	( 
resilience
),	it’s certainly	been	validated	anecdotally	for	me	from	scores	of	the	best	and	brightest individuals	on	the	planet.	Dealing	with	serious	family	emergencies	or tumultuous	changes	in	their	jobs	and	careers,	people	have	provided	abundant testimonials	to	attest	to	their	retained	sanity,	stability,	and	productivity	by utilizing	GTD	practices.	The	methodology	gives	an	individual	a	sense	of	calm and	control	over	a	difficult	situation	that	allows	them	to	use	their	mental faculties	to	address	the	task	at	hand	and	recalibrate	multiple	vectors	in	real	time, as	needed.	In	a	time	of	stress	or	other	adversity,	those	individuals	who	are	able to	think	most	clearly	and	process	the	results	more	efficiently	will	be	more	likely to	emerge	from	the	stress	in	better	shape	than	those	who	do	not. 


The	PsyCap	model	also	provides	a	framework	within	which	to	understand why	groups	who	have	integrated	GTD	as	a	cultural	standard	experience	a significant	degree	of	“moving	up	the	food	chain,”	relative	to	how	their organization	responds,	interacts,	and	produces	results.	Whether	or	not	PsyCap develops	further	as	a	definable,	verifiable,	and	developmental	arena	in organizational	psychology,	it’s	a	great	way	to	describe	the	mental,	emotional, reflective,	and	even	physical	benefits	of	what	you	get	from	using	GTD. 


Undoubtedly	during	the	coming	years	we	will	see	a	continual	stream	of	new scientific	data	that	will	validate	what	I’ve	known	was	true	from	day	one	of	my experience	with	this	model,	and	what	has	been	shared	by	countless	others:	when


all	of	our	potentially	meaningful	things	are	captured,	clarified,	organized,	and reflected	upon,	the	more	mature,	elegant,	and	intelligent	part	of	who	we	really are	can	show	up	at	the	table.	That	produces	experiences	and	results	that	can’t	be beat. 


15


The	Path	of	GTD	Mastery


GTD	IS	ACTUALLY	
a	lifelong	practice	with	multiple	levels	of	mastery.	It	is	very similar	to	playing	an	instrument	like	the	violin,	a	sport	like	tennis,	or	a	game	like chess.	It’s	like	mathematics,	pottery,	art	history,	or	even	parenting.	All	of	these endeavors	involve	learning	and	applying	a	particular	set	of	moves	and techniques,	and	there’s	no	end	to	how	good	you	can	become	at	them,	or	how many	subtleties	there	are	to	explore. 


GTD	is	the	art	of	dealing	with	the	stream	of	life’s	work	and	engagements, which	itself	is	constantly	evolving	for	all	of	us,	at	any	age	or	station.	It’s	about identifying	and	navigating	your	commitments	and	interests	from	a	state	of confidence	and	flow.	Your	work	and	focus	will	change,	often	dramatically,	over time.	But	engaging	with	all	of	it	masterfully	is	a	defined	practice	that	can	be learned	and	refined	over	a	lifetime. 


 
Mastery
	does	not	refer	to	some	final	end	state	of	a	Zen-like	peacefulness	and enlightenment	on	a	mountaintop	(though	that	could	be	an	optional	nice expression	of	it).	Rather,	it’s	the	demonstrated	ability	to	consistently	engage	in productive	behaviors	as	a	means	to	achieve	clarity,	stability,	and	focus	when	it’s desired	or	required—no	matter	what	the	challenge. 


How	well	you	have	developed	that	ability	will	be	tested	when	you’re confronted	with	things	that	are	unclear,	unstable,	and	distracting,	which	are natural	and	normal	symptoms	of	any	change	in	your	world.	The	idea	of	“mind like	water”	doesn’t	assume	that	water	is	always	undisturbed.	On	the	contrary, water	engages	appropriately	with	disturbance,	instead	of	fighting	against	it.	Over the	course	of	life	such	disturbances	can	range	from	dealing	with	your	homework in	the	sixth	grade	to	the	demands	of	your	new	job	to	the	vague	sense	of uneasiness	about	what	to	do	when	you	retire. 


GTD	mastery	involves	learning	and	incorporating	its	various	best	practices, and	then	integrating	them	in	a	holistic	manner,	which	results	in	a	much	more


dynamic	experience	than	simply	the	sum	of	its	parts.	When	you	learn	to	play tennis,	you	focus	on	specific	components	of	its	moves,	like	the	backhand,	the forehand,	the	lob,	and	the	serve.	When	you	actually	play	a	game	of	tennis,	you then	put	them	all	together.	As	you	increase	your	mastery,	your	focus	matures	to encompass	an	overall	strategy.	Similarly,	mastering	GTD	involves	an	initial mastery	of	its	segments,	techniques,	and	tools	and	then	incorporating	them	as you	play	your	whole	life	and	work	game.	Your	expertise	will	be	reflected	in your	using	an	optimally	integrated	system	and	approach,	without	thinking	about it. 


The	Three	Tiers	of	Mastery


Over	the	many	years	of	engaging	with	people	who	have	adopted	the	GTD


methodology,	I	have	noticed	generally	three	stages	of	maturity	they	have demonstrated	in	using	the	model:


1		|		
Employing	the	fundamentals	of	managing	workflow; 


2		|		
Implementing	a	more	elevated	and	integrated	total	life	management system;	and


3		|		
Leveraging	skills	to	create	clear	space	and	get	things	done	for	an	ever-expansive	expression	and	manifestation. 


A	good	analogy	here	is	the	experience	of	learning	to	drive	a	car.	The	first stage	is	getting	the	basics	under	control,	so	that	you	can	handle	the	machine without	hurting	yourself	or	anyone	else.	The	moves	feel	awkward	and	often counterintuitive.	But	once	you’re	good	enough	to	get	your	license,	your	world changes	dramatically	for	the	better,	because	now	you	can	go	places	and	do things	that	you	couldn’t	previously.	Then	there	comes	a	time	when	you	are	able to	drive	down	a	road	without	actually	thinking	about	the	act	of	driving—it’s become	an	almost	automatic	part	of	your	life.	And	finally,	you	decide	to graduate	to	a	really	high-performance	vehicle,	in	which	the	prime	challenge	and opportunity	is	how	well	you	can	focus	ahead,	making	yourself	essentially	one with	your	vehicle,	experiencing	elevated	levels	of	satisfaction	and	fulfillment with	driving. 


Each	of	those	stages	is	represented	by	the	horizons	of	your	focus	and	the application	of	specific	techniques.	At	first	you’re	making	what	look	like	small, 


jerky	movements	but	what	are	actually	very	smooth	movements	focused	on	very short	horizons.	Then,	as	you	gain	comfort	and	familiarity	with	the	process,	you extend	your	focus	to	the	next	street	corner	or	freeway	exit.	Then	you	can graduate	to	a	more	conscious	and	directed	focus	at	multiple	horizons,	driving across	town	with	total	situational	awareness.	Similarly,	as	the	techniques	of 
Getting	Things	Done
	become	increasingly	second	nature,	you	shift	your attention	from	the	mechanics	of	your	system	to	the	results	it	produces. 


Mastering	the	Basics


As	simple	as	they	may	seem	at	first,	building	proficiency	with	the	fundamental components	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
—the	basics—can	take	a	while.	Though	it’s easy	to	understand	and	agree	with	its	concepts	and	principles,	putting	them	fully into	practice	is	not	necessarily	a	smooth	or	automatic	process.	It’s	the	same	as with	any	sophisticated	practice—driving	a	car,	throwing	a	karate	punch,	or playing	the	flute—the	beginning	moves	are	not	familiar	or	comfortable.	Once you’ve	done	them	a	thousand	times,	however,	you	can	manifest	elegance,	power, and	fluidity	that	would	be	inaccessible	any	other	way.	The	same	may	be	true	for you	about	learning	GTD. 


For	example,	capturing	 
everything
	potentially	meaningful	into	trusted external	buckets,	so	that	nothing	remains	rattling	around	in	your	head,	is	a behavior	that	can	be	as	daunting	to	employ	as	learning	to	manually	shift	easily	in a	car.	As	with	most	aspects	of	the	GTD	model,	writing	things	down	is	itself	not	a new	skill,	but	rather	a	practice	that	can	easily	seem	unworthy	of	the	effort,	if	not downright	counterintuitive.	(“If	it’s	not	immediately	important,	why	should	I bother?”)	Becoming	sensitized	to	the	need	to	externalize	those	kinds	of	thoughts as	well	as	building	the	habit	to	actually	carry	out	the	necessary	actions	with	a ubiquitous	tool	at	hand,	without	exception,	is	the	real	challenge. 


Other	basic	practices,	which,	even	if	implemented	initially,	easily	regress	into incomplete,	out-of-date,	and	therefore	dysfunctional	usage,	include: Avoiding	next-action	decision	making	on	“stuff	to	do” 


Fully	utilizing	the	“Waiting	For”	category,	such	that	 
every
	expected deliverable	from	others	is	inventoried	and	reviewed	for	follow-up	in adequate	timing


Using	Agenda	lists	to	capture	and	manage	communications	with	others


Keeping	a	simple,	easily	accessible	filing	and	reference	system Keeping	the	calendar	as	pure	“hard	landscape”	without	undermining	its trustworthiness	with	extraneous	inputs


Doing	Weekly	Reviews	to	keep	one’s	system	functional	and	current 
It’s	Easy	to	Get	Off	Track	.	.	. 


If	you	are	sincere	about	implementing	 
Getting	Things	Done
,	it’s	actually	not	that difficult	to	get	started,	as	I’ve	tried	to	assure	you	with	the	instructions	given	in the	earlier	sections	of	the	book.	At	some	point,	though,	the	rest	of	your	reality will	inevitably	come	flooding	at	you	full	force,	and	if	the	new	practices	haven’t yet	had	time	to	root	themselves	in	your	behavior	patterns,	it’s	relatively	easy	to get	blown	off	course. 


Most	people	are	so	used	to	keeping	things	in	their	heads	that	it’s	very	easy	to slip	back	into	that	familiar	pattern.	Deciding	next	actions	requires	a	thrust	of cognitive	effort	that	seductively	can	be	avoided	if	a	particular	situation	is	not	in some	critical	mode.	Making	time	for	the	Weekly	Review,	if	it’s	not	been instituted	as	a	habit,	can	be	a	daunting	challenge.	All	of	that	begins	to	result	in	a personal	system	that	is	incomplete	and	out	of	date—you’ll	no	longer	be	able	to trust	your	lists	to	give	you	the	whole	picture,	and	because	the	system	is	not	really relieving	pressure,	you’ll	conclude	it’s	not	worth	keeping	up	with	anymore,	and you	might	as	well	take	it	back	into	your	head.	In	those	circumstances	it’s	not uncommon	for	someone	to	wander	off	the	track	exponentially	quickly. 


.	.	.	and	Easy	to	Get	Back	On


The	good	news	is	that	it’s	as	easy	to	get	back	 
into
	your	productive	groove	as	it may	have	been	to	get	knocked	out	of	it.	It	simply	requires	revisiting	the	basics: get	a	pen	and	paper	and	empty	your	head	again;	clean	up	your	lists	of	actions and	projects;	identify	and	add	new	projects	and	next	actions	to	bring	your	lists current;	clean	up	what’s	leaked	outside	your	system. 


This	cycle	of	getting	off	track	and	getting	back	on	again	happens	to	almost everyone—particularly	during	this	first	level	of	mastering	the	basics	of	the game.	In	my	experience	it	can	easily	take	as	long	as	two	years	to	finally	get	this stage	of	practice	fully	integrated	into	one’s	life	and	work	style,	and	consistently


maintained. 


Another	piece	of	good	news	is	that	even	if	a	person	has	gleaned	only	a	few concepts	from	this	material,	or	has	not	implemented	the	system	regularly,	it	can bring	marked	improvement.	If	you	“get”	nothing	more	than	the	two-minute	rule, it	will	be	worth	its	weight	in	gold.	If	you	just	write	down	a	few	more	things	on your	mind	than	you	would	have	previously,	you’ll	sleep	better.	If	you	clean	up	e-mail	to	zero	at	least	every	once	in	a	while,	you	will	have	great	cause	for celebration.	And	if	you	simply	ask,	“What’s	the	next	action?”	of	yourself	or anyone	else	when	you	might	not	have	otherwise,	it	will	add	to	your	stress-free productivity. 


Of	course,	the	more	those	techniques	begin	to	work	together	as	a	whole, systematically	and	consistently,	the	more	dramatic	will	be	the	increase	in	the experience	of	relaxed,	focused	control.	Mastering	the	basics	is	transformative	for most	everyone	who	achieves	it.	If	you	reach	that	stage,	you	will	be	getting	many more	things	done,	more	quickly	and	more	easily,	and	operating	with	greatly increased	confidence	in	how	you’re	dealing	with	the	operational	details	of	life. 


At	this	first	tier	of	GTD	mastery	you	will	be	generally	keeping	yourself	under control	and	focused	on	an	hour-by-hour,	day-by-day	basis. 


Graduate	Level—Integrated	Life	Management


At	this	point,	you	are	ready	to	graduate	to	the	next	level—having	your	hand	on the	helm	of	your	life	on	a	week-to-week,	month-to-month	(and	even	longer) basis.	This	requires	a	more	subtle	level	of	awareness	and	practice.	As	I mentioned	earlier,	as	you	get	better	at	driving	a	car,	you	are	able	to	extend	your horizon,	which	creates	smoother	moves,	and	you	can	focus	more	on	where you’re	going	than	on	the	mechanism	that’s	getting	you	there.	Similarly,	when you	reach	a	certain	level	of	maturity	with	the	GTD	process,	you	won’t	be	as focused	on	the	system	itself	or	how	you’re	working	it,	but	will	utilize	it	in	more flexible,	customized	ways,	as	your	trusted	tool	to	facilitate	control	and	focus over	longer	and	larger	spans. 


Whereas	the	first	level	of	mastery	involves	in-trays,	meetings,	e-mail,	phone calls,	agendas,	waiting-fors,	reference	systems,	list	management,	getting	the right	tools,	etc.,	this	next	tier	is	concerned	with	getting	rigorous	with	the	bigger issues	that	are	driving	the	contents	of	the	basic	level.	These	specific	actions	and information	exist	because	of	their	relevance	to	things	larger	than	themselves—


the	projects	we	have	to	complete,	the	problems	we	need	to	solve,	the	areas	of


focus	and	interest	we	have	in	our	complex	lives.	Why	are	you	getting	that	e-mail?	What’s	the	purpose	of	that	meeting,	and	why	do	you	have	to	attend? 


What’s	coming	up	next	quarter	that	you	need	to	start	dealing	with	now?	What


“projects”	need	to	become	“someday/maybes,”	and	vice	versa,	because	of	some of	the	larger	changes	going	on? 


Mastery	of	the	fundamentals,	which	provides	the	basics	of	effective	and efficient	execution,	also	provides	the	ability	and	room	to	address	a	higher	level of	control	and	focus—projects,	and	how	they	are	identified,	managed,	and understood	in	relation	to	one	another	and	to	the	larger	frameworks	within	which we	operate.	Developing	comfort	with	an	external	mind	frees	up	and	leverages one’s	cognitive	abilities,	paving	the	way	for	many	more	creative	and	productive uses	of	an	integrated	self-management	system. 


The	hallmarks	of	this	next	level	of	maturity	with	 
Getting	Things	Done	
 are: a	complete,	current,	and	clear	inventory	of	projects; 


a	working	map	of	one’s	roles,	accountabilities,	and	interests—personally and	professionally; 


an	integrated	total	life	management	system,	custom	tailored	to	one’s	current needs	and	direction	and	utilized	to	dynamically	steer	out	beyond	the	day-today;	and


challenges	and	surprises	trigger	your	utilization	of	this	methodology	instead of	throwing	you	out	of	it. 


When	Projects	Become	the	Heartbeat	of	Your	Operational	System
 Further	down	the	path	of	mastering	this	methodology	you	will	reach	a	stage	at which	your	Projects	list	becomes	more	the	driver,	rather	than	a	reflection,	of your	Next	Action	lists,	and	your	projects	themselves	will	become	a	truer reflection	of	your	roles,	areas	of	focus,	and	interests.	At	this	point	the	center	of gravity	of	your	self-management	system	will	have	moved	from	the	Ground-level horizon	to	somewhere	between	Horizon	1	and	Horizon	2	(refer	to
	page	55
	in chapter	2). 


Though	it	is	central	to	an	ongoing	experience	of	stress-free	productivity,	very few	people—even	among	those	who	have	been	engaged	with	 
Getting	Things
 
Done
	for	years—actually	walk	around	with	a	complete	inventory	of	their projects,	objectively	and	regularly	reviewed.	Those	who	do	reach	this	level, 


however,	and	come	to	realize	its	power,	make	 
that	
 the	principle	list	from	which they	navigate. 


Given	my	broad	definition	of	 
project
	(any	outcome	requiring	more	than	one step	that	you’re	committed	to	achieve	within	a	year),	it	might	be	challenging enough	for	you	to	delineate	all	of	those,	even	if	they	are	clear	(“Get	new	tires,” 


“Fix	the	printer,”	“Find	a	new	babysitter,”	etc.).	But	the	real	expression	of maturity	here	is	the	inclusion	of	the	more	subtle	desired	outcomes	definable	as doable	events	(“Clarify	Frank’s	new	role	on	the	team,”	“Research	options	for improving	Bettina’s	math	grades,”	“Resolve	property	boundary	issue	with neighbor,”	etc.).	A	signpost	of	GTD	mastery	at	this	stage—and,	indeed,  
life
 mastery!—is	when	one	recognizes	 
anything
	that	has	his	or	her	attention (concerns,	worries,	problems,	issues,	tensions)	and	translates	them	into achievable	outcomes	(projects),	to	be	executed	with	concrete	next	actions.	Most people	resist	acknowledging	issues	and	opportunities	until	they	know	they	can be	handled	successfully,	not	realizing	that	exploring,	looking	into,	or	in	some way	accepting	or	putting	something	to	bed	because	there	is	no	solution	is	an appropriate	outcome	(project)	itself.	The	ability	to	create	appropriate engagement	with	your	neighbor’s	boundary	issue,	your	daughter’s	math	grades, or	the	role	of	a	new	team	member—no	matter	how	ambiguous	or	unclear	the actual	path	for	achieving	each	may	be—by	identifying	the	inherent	project	and taking	steps	to	resolve	it	is	quite	an	extraordinary	and	mature	self-management practice. 


Assessing	and	Populating	Your	Projects	List	from	Your	Areas	of	Focus
 Everything	we	do	is	serving	some	aspect	of	the	roles	and	accountabilities	we have	taken	on	or	an	area	of	interest	and	engagement	in	our	lives.	I	call	my brother	just	to	check	in	and	say	hello	because	“family	relationships”	has meaning	for	me.	I	buy	groceries	because	I	consider	“health	and	vitality” 


important.	I	produce	an	agenda	for	a	board	meeting	because	I	need	to	maintain


“corporate	oversight”	in	my	role	in	my	company. 


Whenever	people	actually	produce	a	checklist	for	this	horizon—the	areas	of professional	and	personal	focus	they	can	identify—they	invariably	realize	that there	are	more	projects	they	need	to	add.	They	will	also	usually	realize	that	they have	not	been	paying	appropriate	attention	to	some	aspect	of	either	their	work	or their	personal	life,	or	both,	and	they	are	motivated	to	bring	more	balance	and


wholeness	to	their	Projects	list. 


An	Integrated	Total	Life-Management	System


The	third	aspect	of	this	stage	of	mastery	is	that	your	system	will	have	become not	just	a	conglomeration	of	various	lists,	information,	applications,	and	tools but	rather	a	cohesive	“control	room”	with	all	its	components	working	together	to engage	effectively	with	whatever	circumstance	arises.	You	will	have	attained	the ability	to	customize	your	lists	and	categories,	and	how	you	use	them,	in	response to	changes	in	your	world	and	your	own	increasing	sophistication	with	the possibilities. 


This	is	a	reflection	of	a	 
functional	awareness
	of	GTD.	You	understand	the essence	and	recognize	the	value	of	the	various	parts	of	the	model	and	therefore have	the	freedom	to	tailor	how	they	are	implemented	to	best	serve	your	needs. 


You	could	build	your	own	application	of	the	GTD	system	from	scratch,	if	need be,	with	your	own	tools	at	hand.	You	are	guided	by	the	principle	of	creating	and engaging	with	the	necessary	orientation	“maps”	to	ensure	you	are	appropriately focused	as	required	for	a	given	situation. 


You’re	not	at	a	loss	about	what	to	do	with	anything—a	business	card	you collected	at	a	lunch	meeting,	a	harebrained	idea	you	woke	up	with	this	morning about	a	project	you	might	want	to	launch,	an	unexpected	private	invitation	to	a major	gala	event,	or	your	blood	panel	report	from	your	last	medical	checkup. 


You	can	create	the	right	placeholder	for	any	type	of	potentially	meaningful	data. 


You	can	also	easily	get	a	sense	of	your	priorities	for	an	upcoming	trip;	you	have everything	you	need	at	hand	for	the	next	webinar	you’re	conducting;	it	would take	minimal	effort	to	pull	together	a	company	overview	for	your	bank;	and	you can	quickly	create	a	rich	context	for	a	family	conversation	about	plans	for	the next	two	years.	You	have	a	dynamic,	working	dashboard	that	serves	your orientation	for	virtually	any	context,	whether	at	home,	at	the	office,	or	in	transit, seamlessly. 


Pressure	Produces	Greater	Rather	Than	Reduced	Utilization	of	These
 
Practices


One	of	the	most	common	observations	I	hear	from	people	who	have	at	some


point	bought	into	the	GTD	process	but	have	not	progressed	particularly	far	with it	is	that	they	fell	away	from	it	because	they	had	an	intense	series	of	back-to-back	business	trips,	or	an	extended	bout	of	the	flu,	or	an	unexpected	crisis	occur with	a	major	client,	or	were	asked	to	run	a	major	project	in	addition	to	their regular	job,	or	.	.	.	and	so	on. 


And	one	of	the	most	common	things	I	hear	from	people	who	 
have
	matured with	their	application	of	and	experience	with	the	methodology	is	that	applying 
Getting	Things	Done
	is	the	very	thing	that	enabled	them	to	negotiate	these	kinds of	tense	situations	with	much	more	effectiveness	and	much	less	stress. 


So,	a	significant	hallmark	of	progress	in	the	path	of	mastery	at	this	stage	is that	very	transition	point	when	issues	and	opportunities	galvanize	GTD	practices instead	of	causing	its	users	to	abandon	them.	When	a	new	problem	explodes	at work,	you	can	get	back	in	control	quickly	with	a	new	mind	sweep	instead	of taking	everything	back	up	into	your	head.	You	identify	desired	outcomes, projects,	and	next	actions	about	this	circumstance	as	soon	as	you	can,	as	opposed to	simply	worrying	about	what’s	happened.	You	actually	do	a	Weekly	Review	in the	middle	of	the	week	because	you	need	that	kind	of	elevated	focus	to recalibrate	your	work,	instead	of	reverting	back	to	latest-and-loudest	as	your priority	criterion. 


Operating	at	this	level	of	GTD	mastery	is	achievable	and	truly	elegant.	The experience,	for	those	who	do	achieve	it,	is	one	of	 
establishing	the	conditions	to
 
flourish
.	What	 
flourish
	means	and	looks	like	for	a	twenty-four-year-old	rock musician	will	likely	be	very	different	than	for	a	fifty-four-year-old	attorney	with three	kids,	but	the	expanded	experience	and	the	process	of	how	they	got	there with	GTD	are	identical. 


Postgraduate:	Focus,	Direction,	and	Creativity


Once	you	have	incorporated	the	basic	elements	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
	and integrated	the	more	elevated	aspects	of	your	commitments	of	life	and	work	into a	trusted	and	customized	systemic	approach,	the	next	frontier	opens:	using	clear internal	space	to	optimize	your	experience,	ad	infinitum. 


This	mastery	level	involves	two	key	aspects:


Utilizing	your	freed-up	focus	for	exploring	the	more	elevated	aspects	of your	commitments	and	values


Leveraging	your	external	mind	to	produce	novel	value


Freedom	to	Engage	in	the	Most	Meaningful	Things
 Once	you	really	know	and	trust	you	can	and	will	execute	effectively	anything that	lands	in	your	in-tray,	you	will	have	the	freedom	to	toss	 
anything
	into	your own	in-tray,	whether	it’s	your	next	crazy	idea,	a	possible	new	technology	to research,	a	book	you	might	want	to	write,	or	an	NGO	Web	site	that	almost brought	you	to	tears	that	you’d	like	to	support.	The	power	to	produce	produces powerful	possibilities. 
*


And,	as	I	hope	I’ve	made	clear	throughout	this	book,	the	ability	to	put	your attention	on	the	more	subtle	and	elevated	levels	of	your	life	and	work	to	a	large degree	depends	on	your	being	able	to	“put	to	bed”	the	inevitably	necessary	more operational	and	mundane	aspects	that,	without	your	appropriate	engagement,	can easily	distract	and	exhaust	your	creative	focus. 


I	applaud	the	people	who	can	sufficiently	compartmentalize	their consciousness	to	be	able	to	draft	a	movie	script,	craft	a	vision	statement	for	their NGO,	or	write	the	perfect	poem	for	their	wedding	vows,	with	all	the	stuff	of unanswered	e-mails,	crashed	computer,	taxes	to	be	filed,	mother-in-law’s complaints	about	the	wedding	program,	and	needed	bank	credit	line	extension still	impinging	on	their	psyches.	I	do	know	that	if	all	of	those	issues	were	quieted with	appropriate	engagement	from	a	GTD	perspective,	the	space	and	inspiration for	the	more	creative	activities	would	be	tremendously	enhanced.	The	negative effect	on	focus	and	performance	of	the	cognitive	load	of	these	kinds	of	open loops	has	now	been	documented.	Many	people	attest	to	their	ability	to	leave work	at	work	and	drop	everything	to	focus	on	the	creative	pursuits	that	interest them,	but	in	my	experience	that’s	only	because	they	don’t	have	a	reference	point of	what	their	lives	would	be	like	without	that	pressure	to	begin	with. 


The	lack	of	pervasive	angst	about	the	details	of	your	daily	life	also	makes	it much	easier	to	shift	your	attention	to	the	direction	and	qualities	of	experience that	really	matter.	As	I	indicated	in	chapter	2,	the	upper	Horizons	of	Focus—


goals,	vision,	purpose,	and	principles—are	the	defining	criteria	for	your priorities.	But	most	people	find	the	ability	to	concentrate	on	and	execute	them effectively	elusive	at	best	and	avoided	(and	guilt	producing!)	at	worst.	A distraction-free	mind	won’t	by	itself	get	you	to	think	about	wild	success scenarios	five	years	in	the	future—you	still	have	to	consciously	direct	your attention	to	those	matters—but	it	does	make	it	infinitely	easier	to	engage	in	such an	exercise	productively. 


Leveraging	Your	External	Mind


Once	you	are	regularly	functioning	at	this	level	of	mastery,	the	creative	thrust	of your	“GTD-ing”	shifts	from	implementing	the	most	effective	way	of	dealing with	the	inputs	and	inherent	demands	of	your	day-to-day	world	to	optimally taking	advantage	of	self-created	contexts	and	triggers	to	produce	creative	ideas, perspectives,	and	actions	that	wouldn’t	normally	occur. 


Wouldn’t	it	be	great	not	to	have	to	think	too	hard	about	what	you	need	to	think	about? 


For	instance,	if	you	have	ever	needed	to	purge	and	bring	up-to-date	a	contact manager,	as	you’ve	reviewed	old	and	potentially	out-of-date	entries	of	people and	businesses,	you’ve	invariably	come	across	items	that	caused	you	to	tell yourself,	“You	know,	I	really	ought	to	get	in	touch	with	her	again,	given	what I’m	now	doing	in	my	business.”  
 
 If	that	kind	of	catalyzed	thought	has	ever	turned into	something	in	any	way	valuable,	then	you’ve	tasted	at	least	a	tiny	bit	of	what could	be	infinitely	more	utilized.	How	many	more	ideas	could	any	of	us	have had	today	that	would	have	potentially	added	value	to	some	aspect	of	our relationships,	work,	and	creative	expressions,	had	we	only	brought	the	right things	into	our	conscious	focus	with	the	ability	to	capture	what	might	show	up? 


This	highly	creative	and	productive	reflection	activity	automatically	occurs	in something	like	the	Weekly	Review,	when	you	are	glancing	at	past	and	future calendar	items	(“Oh,	that	reminds	me	.	.	.	!”)	and	updating	your	Projects	and Next	Actions	lists	(“Ah	.	.	.	now	I	need	to	.	.	.	!”).	Regularly	reassessing	your Someday/	Maybe	contents	offers	an	even	more	expansive	berth	(“You	know,	I think	I	really	 
am
	going	to	take	a	painting	class!”).	But	how	many	other	aspects of	your	experience	and	relationships	could	be	enhanced	with	the	same	kind	of triggers	for	reflection?	What	other	contents,	reviewed	with	some	consistency, might	reveal	valuable	ideas?	It’s	challenging	enough	to	build	in	regular	catch-up behaviors,	but	the	possibilities	of	going	beyond	them	are	endless. 


This	is	the	stage	of	maturity	along	the	GTD	path	of	mastery	in	which	the simple	idea	of	checklists	takes	on	sublime	significance.	As	cognitive	scientists have	validated,	your	mind	is	terrible	at	recalling	things	out	of	the	blue,	but	it	is fantastic	at	doing	creative	thinking	about	what	it	has	directly	in	front	of	it	to evaluate.	When	freed	from	the	remembering	function,	the	mind	is	a	fabulous mechanism	to	put	in	play	by	putting	things	“in	front	of	the	door”	so	you	don’t


have	to	think	too	hard	about	what	to	think	about. 


How	often	would	you	like	to	be	reminded	to	think	about	your	significant family	members?	What,	specifically,	would	be	good	to	remind	yourself	to	think about	when	you	think	about	your	partner,	your	son,	your	sister?	Whom	would you	consider	to	be	on	your	A-list	in	your	professional	network	(the	people whose	influence	and	interactions	with	you	are	most	valuable)?	How	often	should you	review	that	list?	What	affirmations	and	inspirational	writings	would	serve you	to	reconnect	with,	and	at	what	intervals? 


There	are	obviously	an	infinite	number	of	opportunities	any	of	us	could	take advantage	of	to	add	value	to	our	world,	with	the	right	kind	of	structure established	to	relieve	our	psyche	of	the	jobs	it	does	not	do	well	and	to	leverage what	it	does	wonderfully.	But	that	will	not	happen	by	itself.	It	is	a	hallmark	of this	advanced	level	of	GTD	mastery	that	you	recognize	that	dynamic	and	use your	intelligence	to	leverage	itself.	It’s	having	the	freedom	to	generate	and develop	ideas,	without	constraint,	and	then	utilizing	the	practice	of	processing and	organizing	those	notes	and	thoughts	appropriately.	It’s	the	smartest individuals	who	realize	they	are	only	randomly	in	their	“smarts”	and	inspired. 


They’re	the	ones	who	intelligently	build	in	systems	and	processes	to	take advantage	of	the	brilliance	that	often	simply	lies	sleeping	behind	the	dullness required	to	deal	with	the	brutish	world	we	inhabit. 


This	path	of	GTD	mastery—incorporating	the	fundamentals,	utilizing	an elevated	and	integrated	system,	and	leveraging	creative	directional	focus—is	not actually	as	limited	sequentially	as	I	have	laid	it	out.	Most	everyone	manifests aspects	and	portions	of	all	of	these	levels	in	his	or	her	own	practices,	and	I	have often	met	novices	in	some	field	who	had	some	extraordinarily	advanced	moves. 


But	in	my	experience,	when	the	whole	gestalt	of	stress-free	productivity	is	taken into	consideration,	it	requires	a	solid	progression	that	does	not	have	shortcuts. 


You	can’t	really	maintain	a	sense	of	week-to-week	control	if	your	e-mail	is	in chaos.	You	won’t	really	be	free	to	engage	with	your	long-range	planning	or vision	if	you	don’t	have	a	grip	on	the	current	reality	of	the	actual	inventory	of your	seventy-five	projects. 


You	are	continually	involved	in	all	of	these	levels,	consciously	or unconsciously,	explicitly	or	implicitly.	You	have	appointments,	projects,	actions, goals,	and	values,	and	as	a	professional	you	will	find	that	your	work	has	its	own set	of	commitments	within	which	you	must	operate.	Your	mastery	of	 
Getting
 
Things	Done
	will	simply	reflect	the	elegant	equanimity	with	which	you	are engaged	with	 
all	
 of	them.	The	unexpected	e-mail	with	the	major	problem	that


just	appeared,	your	aunt	Martha’s	birthday	this	week,	the	potential	change	in strategy	for	your	company,	and	the	new	piece	of	cookware	you	realize	you	want


—each	is	dealt	with	quickly,	smoothly,	and	in	an	appropriate	context,	leaving nothing	on	your	mind	other	than	what’s	present	in	the	moment. 


Conclusion


I	hope	this	book	has	been	useful—that	you	have	started	to	reap	the	rewards	of getting	more	done	with	less	effort	and	stress.	And	I	 
really
	hope	you	have	tasted the	freedom	of	a	“mind	like	water”	and	the	release	of	your	creative	energies	that can	be	the	result	of	the	application	of	these	techniques.	Those	who	begin	to implement	GTD	methods	always	discover	there’s	more	here	than	meets	the	eye, and	you	may	have	already	begun	to	experience	your	own	version	of	that. 


I’m	willing	to	bet	that	 
Getting	Things	Done
	has	validated	much	of	what	you already	know	and	have	been	doing	to	some	degree	in	your	personal	and professional	life	all	along.	Perhaps,	though,	this	book	will	make	it	much	easier for	you	to	apply	that	common	sense	more	systematically	in	a	world	that	seems	to increasingly	confound	us	with	its	intensity	and	complexity. 


My	intent	is	not	to	add	more	to	the	plethora	of	modern	theories	and	models about	how	to	be	successful.	I	have	tried,	on	the	contrary,	to	define	the	core methods	that	don’t	change	with	particular	fashions,	and	that,	when	applied, always	work.	As	with	gravity,	when	you	understand	the	basic	principle,	you	can operate	a	lot	more	effectively,	no	matter	what	you’re	doing.	Perhaps	this	is	the leading	edge	of	back	to	basics! 


 
Getting	Things	Done
	is	a	road	map	to	achieve	the	positive,	relaxed	focus	that characterizes	your	most	productive	state.	I	invite	you	to	use	it,	like	a	road	map, as	a	reference	tool	to	get	back	there	whenever	you	need	to. 


Here	are	some	final	tips	for	moving	forward:


Get	your	personal	physical	organization	hardware	set	up. 


Get	your	workstation	organized. 


Get	in-trays. 


Create	a	workable	and	easily	accessed	personal	reference	system—for	work


and	home. 


Get	a	good	list-management	organizer	that	you	are	inspired	to	play	with. 


Give	yourself	permission	to	make	any	changes	that	you	have	been


contemplating	for	enhancing	your	work	environments.	Hang	pictures,	buy pens,	toss	stuff,	and	rearrange	your	workspace.	Support	your	fresh	start. 


Set	aside	time	when	you	can	tackle	one	whole	area	of	your	office,	and	then each	part	of	your	house.	Gather	everything	into	your	system,	and	work through	the	 
Getting	Things	Done
	process. 


Share	anything	of	value	you’ve	gleaned	from	this	with	someone	else.	(It’s the	fastest	way	to	learn.)


Review	 
Getting	Things	Done
	again	in	three	to	six	months.	You’ll	notice things	you	might	have	missed	the	first	time	through,	and	I	guarantee	it	will seem	like	a	whole	new	book. 


Stay	in	touch	with	people	who	are	broadcasting	and	reflecting	these behaviors	and	standards
.*


Have	a	great	rest	of	your	life! 


Appendix


Glossary	of	 
Getting	Things	Done	
 Terms


The	following	are	terms	used	throughout	the	exposition	of	the	 
Getting	Things
 
Done
	methodology. 


 
actionable
—Describes	something	on	which	one	intends	to	take	action


 
action	support
—A	category	of	physical	or	digital	materials	that	relate	to	next	actions.	To	be	used	as reference	when	taking	those	actions	rather	than	as	reminders	for	action. 


 
appropriate	engagement
—The	state	of	being	sufficiently	OK	with	something’s	status	to	eliminate	its	pull on	one’s	attention


 
backlog
—The	inventory	of	still-unprocessed	stuff	that	has	accumulated	in	one’s	mind	and	physical environment


 
capture
—To	gather	(and	at	times	generate)	items	and	ideas	identified	as	potentially	meaningful,	about which	one	has	any	attention	or	interest	in	possibly	deciding	or	doing	something.	See	also	
collect
. 


 
categories
—Groupings	of	similar	content	items,	usually	on	a	list,	in	a	folder	or	file,	or	in	a	discrete	physical location


 
checklist
—Any	list	used	to	remind	one	of	or	to	evaluate	optional	steps,	procedures	to	follow,	and/or ingredients	of	an	activity	(e.g.,	Travel	Checklist;	Computer	Backup	Process;	Ready-for-School	Tasks	for kids)


 
clarify
—To	determine	exactly	the	meaning	of	something	that	has	emerged	or	landed	in	one’s	environment from	the	capture	phase	(e.g.,	“Is	there	something	I	now	need	to	do	about	this,	and	if	so,	what?	Or	is	it reference?	Or	is	it	trash?	Or	is	it	on	hold	for	later	review?”).	See	also	
process
. 


 
collect
—To	group	together	items	and	ideas	about	which	some	assessment,	decision,	or	action	is	required. 


See	also	
capture
. 


 
context
—The	physical	or	psychological	environment	within	which	reminders	and	information	are	most effectively	sorted	for	access	(e.g.,	when	one	is	at	home,	in	a	staff	meeting,	out	for	errands,	at	the	computer, feeling	creative,	near	a	phone,	having	a	conversation	with	a	partner,	etc.)


 
control
—One	of	the	two	key	elements	of	self-	and	organizational	management	(along	with	perspective). 


Used	to	refer	to	having	something	stable	and	“under	control,”	rather	than	attempted	manipulation	(e.g., having	a	car,	a	meeting,	or	the	kitchen	under	control). 


 
Getting	Things	Done
—Usually	referring	to	the	methodology	described	in	this	book,	as	in,	“Maria	was	just a	beginner	at	implementing	 
Getting	Things	Done
” 


 
GTD
—The	acronym	for	 
Getting	Things	Done
;	the	shorthand	for	referring	to	this	methodology


 
Horizons	of	Focus
—The	discrete	levels	of	commitments	we	make	and	thoughts	we	have,	personally	and/or organizationally


 
Ground:	Next	actions
—The	things	we	deal	with	at	the	physical,	visible	level	of	activity,	such	as	e-mails,	phone	calls,	conversations,	errands,	and	meetings


 
Horizon	1:	Projects
—Anything	we’re	committed	to	finish	within	the	next	year	that	requires	more	than one	discrete	action	step.	Includes	short-term	outcomes	such	as	“Repair	brake	light”	and	larger-scope projects	such	as	“Reorganize	Western	Region.”	The	critical	inventory	of	the	Weekly	Review.	See	also 
project
. 


 
Horizon	2:	Areas	of	focus	and	accountability
—The	segments	of	our	life	and	work	that	we	need	to maintain,	to	ensure	stability	and	health	of	ourselves	and	our	enterprises	(e.g.,	health,	finances,	customer service,	strategic	planning,	family,	career)


 
Horizon	3:	Goals	and	objectives
—The	mid-	to	longer-term	outcomes	to	accomplish	(usually	within three	to	twenty-four	months);	e.g.,	“Finalize	acquisition	of	Acme	Consulting,”	“Establish	profitable online	version	of	our	leadership	training	course,”	“Get	Maria’s	college	plans	finalized” 


 
Horizon	4:	Vision
—Long-term	desired	outcomes;	ideal	scenarios	of	wild	success	(e.g.,	“Publish	my memoir,”	“Take	the	company	public,”	“Have	a	vacation	home	in	Provence”)


 
Horizon	5:	Purpose,	principles
—Ultimate	intention,	raison	d’être,	and	core	values	of	a	person	or enterprise	(e.g.,	“To	serve	the	growth	of	our	community	in	ways	that	sustainably	provide	the	greatest good	for	the	greatest	number	of	our	citizens”)


 
horizontal	thinking
—Assessing	and	managing	content	across	a	particular	equal	level	(e.g.,	overviewing	all the	projects	one	has,	personally	and	professionally)


 
incubate
—To	allow	something	to	remain	within	a	system	without	a	commitment	to	take	action	yet,	but	to be	reassessed	at	a	later	time.	Reminders	are	usually	held	within	Someday/Maybe	lists,	tickler	files,	or triggered-for-later	calendar	items. 


 
integrated	life-management	system
—The	combination	of	tools,	structures,	content,	and	practices	used	to maintain	appropriate	engagement	with	one’s	world.	A	workflow,	organization,	and	review	process	that incorporates	every	aspect	of	one’s	work	and	life,	ensuring	a	seamless	and	current	inventory	of commitments,	reminders,	and	information	for	optimal	control	and	focus	anywhere,	at	any	time. 


 
in-tray
—A	holding	bin,	either	physical	or	digital,	for	incoming	items	still	to	be	processed


 
map
—Any	tool	for	orienting	appropriate	focus	and	direction	(e.g.,	a	calendar,	lists	of	actions	and	projects, agendas	for	meetings,	strategic	plans,	job	descriptions,	travel	checklist,	Weekly	Review	checklist).	See	also 
review
. 


 
natural	planning	model
—The	instinctual	five-stage	thought	process	our	minds	follow	when	executing	any desired	outcome


 
next	action
—The	next	physical,	visible	activity	that	progresses	something	toward	completion.	It	is	specific enough	so	that	you	know	where	it	happens,	and	with	what	tools	(if	any).	What	“doing”	looks	like. 


 
open	loop
—Anything	considered	unfinished,	which,	if	inappropriately	managed,	consistently	engages	one’s mind	inefficiently


 
organize
—To	physically,	visually,	or	digitally	sort	items	of	similar	meaning	into	discrete	categories	and locations	(e.g.,	a	list	of	phone	calls	to	make,	a	shelf	for	books	to	read,	a	list	of	projects	to	complete)


 
organized
—Where	something	is	matches	what	it	means	to	you


 
orientation	maps
—Custom	lists	or	reference	documents	that	support	appropriate	engagement	with	one’s circumstances	(e.g.,	meeting	agendas,	calendars,	checklists,	action	and	project	lists)


 
outcome
—A	final	result,	at	any	level.	Usually	refers	to	“desired	outcome”—i.e.	the	specifics	of	a	successful conclusion. 


 
path	of	GTD	mastery
—The	lifelong	learning,	refining,	and	adaptation	of	managing	one’s	life	and	work. 


The	development	and	utilization	of	a	completely	integrated	life-management	system,	dynamically	steered, providing	optimal	orientation	for	any	circumstance	for	the	rest	of	one’s	life. 


 
perspective
—One	of	the	two	key	elements	of	self-	and	organizational	management	(along	with	control). 


Refers	to	point	of	view,	focus,	altitude	of	horizon. 


 
predefined	work
—One’s	predetermined	actions	and	projects,	reflected	in	a	set	of	lists	and	reminders, accessible	for	review	and	evaluation	against	unplanned	and	unexpected	options


 
process
—To	decide	what,	exactly,	a	captured	or	collected	item	means,	the	nature	of	any	of	its	derivatives, and	what	you	intend	to	do	with	the	results.	See	also	
clarify
. 


 
productive	experience
—The	condition	of	being	in	control,	relaxed,	focused,	meaningfully	engaged,	and fully	present.	Optimal	state	for	performance	and	experience. 


 
productivity	ecosystem
—All	potentially	meaningful	information,	relationships,	and	inputs	that	may	trigger one’s	attention	and	direction	of	focus


 
project
—Any	multistep	outcome	that	can	be	completed	within	one	year.	Any	commitment	within	that	time frame	needs	to	be	reviewed	at	least	weekly.	See	also	
Horizons	of	Focus:	Horizon	1
. 


 
project	support
—Any	collateral	materials	and	information	connected	to	a	specific	project.	Can	include project	plans	and	any	potentially	relevant	reference	content.	Best	organized	by	project,	theme,	or	topic. 


 
reflect
—To	assess	contents	of	any	horizon	or	category	of	items	from	a	broader	perspective.	See	also 
review
. 


 
review
—To	analyze	appropriate	maps	on	a	consistent	basis	or	as	needed	for	clarity	and	focus.	See	also 
reflect
; 
map
. 


 
someday/maybe
—A	common	category	used	to	organize	projects	and	actions	one	is	committed	to	review only	for	potential	action	at	a	later	date


 
stuff
—Anything	that	has	appeared	in	one’s	physical	or	psychological	environment	about	which	some decision	or	action	is	required	but	which	is	yet	undetermined	or	unorganized


 
threefold	nature	of	work
—The	categories	of	what	we	do	as	we	go	through	our	day:	(1)	work	we’ve previously	defined	(actions	predetermined);	(2)	unplanned	activity;	and	(3)	defining	our	work	(processing inputs)


 
tickler	file
—A	physical	or	digital	organizational	tool	that	provides	a	date-related	reminder	to	be	assessed only	at	or	beyond	a	specific	future	date	(also	referred	to	as	a	“perpetual	file,”	“bring-forward	file,”	“follow-up	file,”	or	“suspense	file”)


 
total	life	ecosystem
—The	contents	within	the	boundary	of	one’s	sensing	self.	The	world	as	one	perceives	it, one’s	situational	awareness	and	correlative	behavior	that	may	be	more	or	less	effective	on	the	scale	from physical	survival	to	full	spiritual	presence. 


 
vertical	thinking
—Examining	and	creating	multiple	levels	of	content	within	a	particular	sphere	(e.g., planning	a	project	from	intended	purpose	through	next	actions)


 
waiting	for
—Category	of	expected	items	pending	receipt	from	other	sources


 
Weekly	Review
—The	best	practice	recommended	of	regrouping	at	an	operational	level	once	a	week, 


“bringing	up	the	rear	guard,”	by	getting	clean,	clear,	current,	and	creative	to	sustain	week-to-week	control and	focus


 
weird	time
—The	random	and	usually	small	open-time	windows	that	show	up	spontaneously	throughout	the day,	during	which	one	can	often	still	be	productive	by	utilizing	reminders	and	material	appropriate	within that	framework


 
work
—Anything	one	is	committed	to	accomplish	that	is	unfinished


 
workflow
—The	sequence	of	activities	that	takes	inputs	and	commitments	from	initiation	to	completion


Index


The	page	numbers	in	this	index	refer	to	the	printed	version	of	this	book.	To	find	the	corresponding	locations in	the	text	of	this	digital	version,	please	use	the	“search”	function	on	your	e-reader.	Note	that	not	all	terms may	be	searchable. 


accountabilities:


blueprinting	areas	of,	187–89


in	Horizon	2,	55–56,	215–19,	220–22


next-action	decision-making	standard	and,	262–63


Acheson,	Dean,	254


agendas,	150–51


agreements:


broken,	244–49


completing,	246–47


renegotiating,	247–48


American	Psychological	Association,	276


archives,	175–76


Aristotle,	179


Bacon,	Francis,	xxii


balancing	act,	213–15


Baumeister,	Roy,	278–79


Bayne,	Stephen,	127


behavior-focused	strategies,	281


Bergson,	Henri,	15


big	picture,	9–11,	201–3


Blake,	William,	142


bottom-up	approach,	21–22


Boulanger,	Nadia,	11


brain,	60


filtering	system	in,	70–71


 
see	also
	mind


brainstorming,	60,	61,	64,	72–76,	79–81,	229–30,	272


keys	to,	75–76


software	for,	236–38


Bronowski,	J.,	136


Buddha,	216


Buzan,	Tony,	73


cabinets,	113


calendar,	43–45,	94,	145–46


reflecting	and,	193


someday/maybes	and,	180–82


tickler	file,  
see
	tickler	file


in	Weekly	Review,	197


calls,	148,	191


Camus,	Albert,	202


capturing,	27–35,	36,	52,	87,	106–21,	142


amount	required,	249–50


broken	agreements	and,	244–49


effects	on	organizations	and	relationships,	250–52


emptying	tools	regularly,	34–35


gathering	the	incompletes,	30–31


getting	things	out	of	your	head,	33


of	ideas,	methods	for,	72–74


“in”	inventory	in,	121


issues	about,	109–12


mind	sweep	in,	115–20,	255


minimizing	locations	for,	34


negative	feelings	and,	244–45


personal	benefit	of,	244–50


physical	gathering	in,	107–15


power	of,	243–52


success	factors	for,	33–35


and	things	that	stay	where	they	are,	108–9


and	throwing	away	things	you	might	want,	114–15


time	needed	for,	106


tools	for,	31–33


Chartier,	Emile,	74


checklists,	184–90


and	blueprinting	areas	of	work	and	accountability,	187–89


examples	of	topics	in,	189


and	identifying	projects	and	action,	186


of	things	to	pay	attention	to,	186


Weekly	Review	and,	197


 
see	also
	lists


Childre,	Doc,	10,	226


Chisholm,	Brock,	260


Churchill,	Winston,	238


clarifying,	27–29,	35–39,	52,	87,	110,	122–40,	141,	142


actionable	items	and,	36–39


deferring	in,	136,	139


delegation	in,	136,	137–38


emergency	scanning	vs.,	124–25


identifying	next	action,	127–39


identifying	projects,	139–40


natural	planning	and,	80


one	item	at	a	time	in,	125–26


one-way	path	in,	126–27


processing	guidelines	for,	124–27


top	item	first	in,	124–25


two-minute	rule	in,	xii,	134–37


clarity,	64,	69,	79,	80,	97,	144,	157


next-action	decision-making	standard	and,	261–62


client	information,	168–69,	174–75


clips,	93


cognitive	science,	25,	275–85


distributed	cognition,	74,	277–78


flow	theory,	279–80


implementation	intentions,	282


positive	psychology,	276–77


psychological	capital,	283–85


relieving	cognitive	load	of	incompletions,	278–79


self-leadership	theory,	280–82


Cohen,	Daniel,	208


collection	tools,	14


commitments,	13–14


basic	requirements	for	managing,	14


complaining,	264–65


computers,	148,	234


software,	170,	236–38


constructive	thought	pattern	strategies,	281


contact	managers,	174–75


context,	146–53,	193–94,	205–6


creative	sorting	of,	206–7


Cooper,	James	Fenimore,	50


countertops,	113


Covey,	Stephen,	214


Cryer,	Bruce,	10


Csikszentmihalyi,	Mihaly,	280


decision	catalysts,	181–82


decoration,	108–9


deferring,	136,	139


delegation,	136,	137–38


of	projects,	165


desk	drawers,	109,	112–13


desktop,	112


digital	technology,	xvi–xvii,	233–34


computers,	148,	234


integration	of,	32–33


paper	vs.,	235–36


software,	170,	236–38


distributed	cognition,	74,	277–78


Drucker,	Peter,	5,	16,	194


dumbing	down,	intelligent,	259–61


Dyson,	Freeman,	36


easels,	233,	234 
n


Einstein,	Albert,	45,	69


e-mail,	32,	33,	35,	121,	273


project	organization	and,	170


e-mail-based	workflow,	156–58


emergency	scanning,	124–25


Emerson,	Ralph	Waldo,	xxvi,	16


empowerment,	264–65,	273


energy,	208–9,	253,	259,	268


engaging,	27–29,	51–57,	204–26


context	in,	205–6


creative	context	sorting	in,	206–7


and	energy	available,	208–9


four-criteria	model	for	choosing	actions	in	the	moment,	52–53,	205–10


moment-to-moment	balancing	act	and,	213–15


priorities	and,	210,	225–26


six-level	model	for	reviewing	your	own	work,	54–57,	215–16


threefold	model	for	evaluating	daily	work,	53–54,	210–15


three	models	for	making	action	choices,	52–57


and	time	available,	208


equipment,	108–9,	114


errands,	149


event	participation,	181


fast	track,	266–67


file	folders,	94,	98,	144–45,	234


creating,	101


labeling,	102–3


for	projects,	170–71


for	tickler	system,	183–84


files,	filing,	48–49,	234–35


alpha	system	in,	100–101


critical	factor	of,	97–98


discrete,	97


general	reference,	42,	48–49,	97,	100,	173


large-category,	173–74


purging	of,	103


storage	space	for,	101–2


as	success	factor	in	itself,	103–4


success	factors	for,	99–103


tickler,  
see
	tickler	file


floors,	113–14


flow	theory,	279–80


focus,	55–56,	69–71,	295–99


areas	of	(Horizon	2),	55–56,	215–19,	220–22,	296


fast	track	and,	266–67


project	lists	and,	160


on	values,	245 
n


 
see	also
	outcome	focusing


forgiveness,	248


Forster,	E.	M.,	233


four-criteria	model	for	choosing	actions	in	the	moment,	52–53,	205–10


Francis	of	Assisi,	Saint,	264


Frost,	Robert,	206


Fulghum,	Robert,	132,	254


furniture	and	fixtures,	114


George,	David	L.,	87


“Getting	Things	Done:	The	Science	Behind	Stress-Free	Productivity”	(Heylighen	and	Vidal),	277,	278


Gibbon,	Edward,	10


Gleeson,	Kerry,	17


glossary	of	terms,	303–8


goals,	56,	201,	215–19,	222–23,	224


implementation	intentions	and,	282


Goethe,	Johann	Wolfgang	von,	271


Gollwitzer,	Peter	M.,	282


Great	Recession,	7 
n


ground	level	(current	actions),	55,	215–19


GTD	(Getting	Things	Done),	xvi 
n


cognitive	science	and,  
see
	cognitive	science


digital	technology	and,	xvi–xvii


globalization	of	methodology	used	in,	xviii–xix


as	inclusive	of	large	population,	xix–xx


time	and	energy	required	for,	xx–xxii


tips	for	moving	forward	in,	300–301


24-7	world	and,	xvii–xviii


GTD	mastery,	286–99


assessing	and	populating	your	projects	list	from	your	area	of	focus,	293


of	basics,	288–90


external	mind	in,	297–99


and	freedom	to	engage	in	meaningful	things,	295–97


functional	awareness	in,	293


getting	off	track	and	back	on,	289–90


integrated	life	management,	290–95


postgraduate	(focus,	direction,	and	creativity),	295–99


pressure	and,	294–95


and	projects	as	heartbeat	of	operational	system,	292–93


three	tiers	of,	287–88


Harris,	Sydney	J.,	270


Hatfield,	J.	A.,	xxv


Havel,	Václav,	22


Hock,	Dee,	68


Hoffer,	Eric,	7


“hold	and	review”	files	and	piles,	179–80


Holmes,	Oliver	Wendell,	144


home,	89,	90,	150


Hoover,	Herbert,	269


hope,	283–84


Horace,	18


Horizons	of	Focus,	296


ground	level	(current	actions),	55,	215–19


Horizon	1	(current	projects),	49,	215–19,	219–20


Horizon	2	(areas	of	focus	and	accountabilities,	55–56,	215–19,	220–22,	296


Horizon	3	(goals),	56,	201,	215–19,	222–23


Horizon	4	(vision),	56,	201,	215–19,	222–23


Horizon	5	(purpose	and	principles),	56–57,	201,	215–19,	222–23


horizontal	action	management,	22–23,	27,	58,	227


Hubbard,	Elbert,	38


implementation,	85–105


setting	aside	time,	87–88,	104–5


setting	up	space,	88–91


tools	for,  
see
	tools


implementation	intentions,	282


incompletions:


gathering,	30–31


relieving	cognitive	load	of,	278–79


triggers,	116–20


incubation,	46–47,	129–30


information	gathering,	230


integrated	life	management,	290–95


integrity,	243,	246,	247


intelligent	dumbing	down,	259–61


in-trays,	32–35,	109–10,	121,	251–52,	254,	273


LIFO	vs.	FIFO	approach	to,	125


Jobs,	Steve,	xiv


John-Roger,	55


Johnson,	Samuel,	269


Kanter,	Rosabeth	Moss,	227


karate,	12


Kekich,	David,	xxvii,	201


Kempton,	Sally,	25


Kennedy,	John	F.,	263


knowledge	work,	5,	11,	16–17,	255 
n


Kozol,	Jonathan,	223


Kumaris,	Brahma,	31


labeler,	93,	102–3


La	Bruyère,	Jean	de,	152


Lambert,	Craig,	11–12


Landers,	Ann,	110


LeFevre,	Judith,	280


Leonardo	da	Vinci,	200


Levitin,	Daniel,	277


libraries,	175–76


Lin	Yutang,	74


Lippmann,	Walter,	27


lists,	19–20,	39,	111,	144–45


agenda,	151


checklists,  
see
	checklists


digital	managers	for,	153 
n


incompletion	triggers,	116–20


next	actions,	45


project,  
see
	project	lists


read/review,	152


someday/maybe,	46–47,	177–79


to-do,	9,	19–20,	44,	146


of	“waiting	for”	items,	153–54,	197


location-based	reminders,	149 
n


Maltz,	Maxwell,	70


managing	action,	20–26


horizontal	methods	of,	22–23,	27,	58,	227


as	prime	challenge,	20–21


vertical	methods	of,	22–23,	58–59,	227,	238


Manz,	Charles	C.,	280–81


martial	arts,	11,	12


Maslow,	Abraham,	276


McGriffy,	Michael,	44


meetings,	230,	273


Mills,	C.	Wright,	98


mind,	18,	23 
n, 
	277


external,	xii,	277–78,	297–99


getting	things	out	of,	23–26,	33,	121


natural	planning	in,	60–62,	65


reasons	for	things	to	be	on,	17


short-term-memory	part	of,	24–25


sweep	of,	115–20,	255


water	simile	and,	11,	12,	106,	279,	286


mind	mapping,	72,	73,	236,	238


 
Mind	Over	Water
	(Lambert),	11–12


moment-to-moment	balancing	act,	213–15


Montaigne,	Michel	Eyquem	de,	33


Moore’s	Law,	xvi


Mowrer,	O.	H.,	86


multilevel	outcome	management,	270–71


multitasking,	126


mundane	tasks,	269–70


Myer,	Rochelle,	64


natural	reward	strategies,	281


Neck,	Christopher	P.,	280–81


negative	feelings,	244–45,	259


next-action	decisions,	60,	62,	77–79,	127–39,	253–65,	268


accountability	and,	262–63


as	acquired	practice,	254–55


categories	of,	43–45


clarity	and,	261–62


and	creating	the	option	of	doing,	255–57


empowerment	and,	264–65


intelligent	dumbing	down	and,	259–61


as	operational	standard,	253,	261–65


procrastination	and,	257–61


productivity	and,	263


source	of	technique,	254–55


no,	saying,	246


Nordenholt,	George	F.,	259


notebooks,	171,	234,	235


note	taking,	32–33


Oettingen,	Gabrielle,	282


office,	90,	149–50


open	loops,	14,	18,	23 
n
–24 
n, 
	30,	31


optimism,	283–84


 
Organized	Mind,	The
	(Levitin),	277


organizations:


capture	habit	in,	250–52


cultures	of,	252,	272–74


organizers,	95–97,	111


organizing,	27–29,	36,	39–49,	52,	64,	141–90,	230


of	action	reminders,	145–58


agendas	in,	150–51


basic	categories	in,	142–45


basics	of,	77


calendar	in,	43–45,	145–46


calls	in,	148


checklists	in,  
see
	checklists


computer	tasks	in,	148


contact	managers	and,	174–75


context	categories	in,	146–53


and	dispersing	action	reminders,	158


of	e-mail-based	workflow,	156–58


errands	in,	149


folders	for,	144–45


home	tasks	in,	150


incubation	and,	46–47,	129–30


of	libraries	and	archives,	175–76


lists	for,	19–20,	144–45


in	natural	planning,	60,	61,	76–77


next-action	categories	in,	43–45


of	nonactionable	data,	171–84


nonactionable	items	in,	45–49


office	tasks	in,	149–50


original	items	as	action	reminders	in,	154–58


of	paper-based	workflow,	154–56


of	projects,  
see
	project	lists;	projects


purging	and,	110–11


read/review	items	in,	151–53,	156,	179–80


of	reference	materials,	48–49,	130–31,	172–76;  
see	also
	files,	filing of	someday/maybes,  
see
	someday/maybes


tickler	file	in,  
see
	tickler	file


traditional	models	of,	8–9


trash	and,	46,	128–29


“waiting	for”	items	in,	153–54


outcome	focusing,	266–74


and	mastering	the	mundane,	269–70


multilevel,	270–71


and	power	of	natural	planning,	271–72


and	shifting	to	positive	organizational	culture,	272–74


significance	of,	267–69


outcome/vision,	56,	60,	61,	65,	69–72,	201,	215–19,	222–23


outlining	applications,	236–37


Ovid,	231


paper,	32,	93,	232


digital	technology	vs.,	235–36


paper-based	workflow,	154–56


paper-holding	trays,	92–93


Pauling,	Linus,	72


pens,	232


planning,	58–82


amount	needed,	79–81


formal	and	structured	tools	for,	59


reactive,	64–65


unnatural,	63–64,	75


planning,	natural,	60–63


brainstorming	in,  
see
	brainstorming


dinner	example	of,	60–62


five	phases	of,	65–77


information	gathering	and,	230


meetings	and,	230


need	for,	227


next	actions	in,  
see
	next-action	decisions


as	not	normal,	62–63


organizing	in,	60,	61,	76–77


power	of,	271–72


principles	in,	60,	68–69


purpose	in,	60,	65–68


steps	in,	229–30


support	structures	for,	234–38


tips	and	techniques	for,	227–39


tools	for,	231–34


vision/outcome	in,	56,	60,	61,	65,	69–72,	201,	215–19,	222–23


what	projects	to	plan,	228–31


 
see	also
	projects


positive	psychology,	276–77


Post-its,	93


principles,	60,	68–69


in	Horizon	5,	56–57,	201,	215–19,	222–23


priorities,	210,	225–26


problems,	163,	273,	294–95


process,	meaning	of,	124


procrastination,	257–61


productivity,	13,	253,	267,	273


next-action	decision-making	standard	and,	263


project	lists,	41,	140,	159–67,	222


assessing	and	populating,	293


control	and	focus	facilitated	by,	160


finalizing,	219–20


number	of,	164


relationship	management	and,	161


tensions	alleviated	by,	160–61


value	of,	159–61


Weekly	Review	and,	161,	166


projects,	41–42,	159–71


ad	hoc,	169–71


attached	notes	for,	169–70


current	activities	and,	161


deciding	on,	228–31


delegated,	165


e-mail	and	software	applications	for,	170,	236–38


as	heartbeat	of	operational	system,	292–93


higher-horizon	interests	and	commitments	and,	162–63


Horizon	1	and,	49,	215–19,	219–20


identifying,	139–40


long-term,	263 
n


notebooks	for,	171,	234,	235


paper-based	files	for,	170–71


personal	vs.	professional,	164–65


problems,	issues,	and	opportunities	and,	163–64


random,	231


reassessing,	178


subprojects,	166–67


subsorting,	164–65


support	materials	for,	42,	167–69


support	structures	for,	234–38


tools	for,	231–34


triggers	for	activating,	180


types	of,	165


uncovering,	161–64


Weekly	Review	and,	197


 
see	also
	planning,	natural


psychological	capital	(PsyCap),	283–85


purging,	110–11


purpose,	60,	65–68


in	Horizon	5,	56–57,	201,	215–19,	222–23


Raeder,	Bill,	19


Rand,	Ayn,	193


read/review	items,	151–53,	156,	179–80


recycling	bin,	94–95


reference	materials,	108–9,	130–31,	172–76


systems	for,	172–76


 
see	also
	files,	filing


reflecting,	27–29,	49–51,	52,	191–203


action	lists	in,	193


bigger	picture	and,	9–11,	201–3


calendar	in,	193


context	and,	193–94


horizon	areas	in,	49


and	updating	system,	194


Weekly	Review	in,  
see
	Weekly	Review


what	to	look	at	and	when,	49–50,	192–94


relationships,	capture	habit	and,	250–52


resilience,	283–84


reticular	activating	system,	70


review,  
see
	reflecting


Rogers,	Will,	64,	81


rubber	bands,	93


Saffo,	Paul,	198


Santayana,	George,	65


Schwab,	Charles,	216


science,  
see
	cognitive	science


 
Scientific	American, 
	70


self-efficacy,	283–84


self-leadership	theory,	280–82


Seligman,	Martin,	276


Shaw,	George	Bernard,	264


shelves,	113–14


six-level	model	for	reviewing	your	own	work,	54–57,	215–16


skepticism,	xxviii


Snyder,	Steven,	268


software,	170,	236–38


someday/maybes,	176–84,	263 
n


calendar	for,	180–82


“hold	and	review”	files	and,	179–80


lists	of,	46–47,	177–79


special	categories	of,	178–79


Weekly	Review	and,	198


space,	88–91


at	home,	89,	90,	150


office,	90,	149–50


sharing	of,	90–91


stapler,	93


Sterner,	Thomas,	xxi


stuff,	18–20,	36–38,	106,	172,	260


workflow	diagram	for,	37,	40,	123,	143


supplies,	108–9


support	materials	for	projects,	42,	167–69


Suzuki,	Shunryu,	13


tape,	93


texting,	32


thinking	tools,	231–32


threefold	model	for	evaluating	daily	work,	53–54,	210–15


tickler	file,	46,	47,	182–84


setting	up,	183–84


time:


available,	208


setting	aside	for	implementing	process,	87–88,	104–5


traditional	models	for	managing,	8–9,	249


to-do	lists,	9,	19–20,	44,	146


Toffler,	Alvin,	58


Tomlin,	Lily,	71


tools,	92–104,	231–34


basic	processing,	92–97


digital,  
see
	digital	technology


easels,	233,	234 
n


filing,  
see
	file	folders;	files,	filing


thinking,	231–32


whiteboards,	233–34


writing,	32,	232


trash,	46,	128–29


tricks,	85–86


Twain,	Mark,	256,	258


two-minute	rule,	xii,	134–37


values,	10,	245 
n


Van	Doren,	Mark,	3


vertical	action	management,	22–23,	58–59,	227,	238


vision,	56,	60,	61,	65,	69–72,	201,	215–19,	222–23


“waiting	for”	items,	153–54


Weekly	Review	and,	197


walls,	113–14


wastebasket,	94–95


Weekly	Review,	50–51,	161,	166,	194–201


defined,	195


executive	operational,	200–201


getting	clear	in,	195–96


getting	creative	in,	195,	197–99


getting	current	in,	195,	196–97


time	and	place	for,	199–201


whiteboards,	233–34


Whitehead,	Alfred	North,	185


 
Willpower
	(Baumeister	and	Tierney),	279


Wilson,	Desmond,	248


Woodruff,	Julia	Louise,	247


work,	250


changes	in,	6–8


defining,	4 
n


knowledge,	5,	11,	16–17,	255 
n


lack	of	clear	boundaries	in,	5–6


workspace,  
see
	space


writing	instruments:


paper	and	pads,	32,	232


pens,	232


zone,	11,	250,	279


An	invitation... 


The	David	Allen	Company	provides	training,	coaching,	assessment,	and	consulting	programs	that
 
continue	to	serve	many	of	the	global	Fortune	100	organizations,	small	and	medium-size	businesses,
 
and	a	vast	array	of	creative	individuals	worldwide.	Our	Academy	is	the	source	of	the	best	practices	of
 
the	Getting	Things	Done	methodology	and	offers	certification	programs	and	a	forum	for	a	worldwide
 
community	of	professionals,	dedicated	to	ensuring	consistent	top-quality	education	through	all	of	our
 
certified	global	trainers,	coaches	and	partners. 


Could	you	use	more	in-depth	coaching	and	training	to	install,	implement,	maintain,
 
and	leverage	these	practices	for	yourself	personally	and/or	professionally? 


Are	you	interested	in	connecting	and	engaging	with	a	global	community	of	people	who
 
have	embodied	and	endorsed	this	methodology	both	personally	and	professionally? 


Are	you	part	of	an	organization	that	could	benefit	from	these	practices? 


Would	you	simply	like	to	get	immediate	tips	and	inspiration	for	gaining	greater
 
control	and	perspective	with	the	least	amount	of	effort? 


If	“yes”	to	any	of	the	above,	explore	the	wide	range	of	products	and	services	on	our
 
Web	site	and	feel	free	to	communicate	with	us	directly. 


At	whatever	level	you	choose	to	participate,	we	at	the	David	Allen	Company	welcome
 
you	into	our	dynamic	global	community	of	GTD	practitioners.	It	doesn’t	take	much
 
involvement	with	this	material	to	make	a	lot	of	difference—for	yourself	and	the	world
 
around	you.	Stay	engaged,	and	stay	in	touch. 


gettingthingsdone.com


info@gettingthingsdone.com






*
“GTD”	( 
Getting	Things	Done	
 abbreviated)	has	become	the	popular	acronym	around	the	world	for	the methodology	I	describe	in	this	book.	This	edition	uses	it	frequently	as	shorthand. 


*
As	I	write	this,	I	am	in	the	middle	of	a	move	to	Europe	from	the	U.S.,	attempting	to	reduce	my	physical possessions	to	a	bare	minimum.	So	I	scanned	and	digitized	everything	in	my	physical	tickler	file	(which	I have	used	for	thirty	years,	described	on	page	182).	Already	I’ve	been	frustrated	several	times	with	things that	would	have	been	much	more	easily	handled	had	I	kept	the	physical	version! 


*
An	excellent	resource	in	this	area	is	Charles	Duhigg’s	book,  
The	Power	of	Habit. 


*
I	consider	“work,”	in	its	most	universal	sense,	to	mean	anything	that	you	want	or	need	to	be	different	than it	currently	is.	Many	people	make	a	distinction	between	“work”	and	“personal	life,”	but	I	don’t:	To	me, weeding	the	garden	or	updating	my	will	is	just	as	much	“work”	as	writing	this	book	or	coaching	a	client. 


All	the	methods	and	techniques	in	this	book	are	applicable	across	that	life-work	spectrum—to	be	effective, they	need	to	be. 


*
The	Great	Recession,	early	in	this	century,	added	to	the	uncertainties	by	creating	the	need	for	many	to keep	working	after	traditional	retirement	ages,	often	requiring	the	discovery	of	some	other	way	to	make money. 


*
“Knowledge	work”	may	seem	an	unfamiliar	concept	to	many	in	this	century,	simply	because	so	much	of our	lives	now	incorporates	so	many	nonphysical	and	nonobvious	things	we	need	to	decide,	demanding constant	thinking	and	choices.	Most	of	us	are	in	it	all	the	time	(the	last	thing	a	fish	notices	is	water).	But	the realization	of	the	thinking	process	itself	that	we	must	be	applying	is	not	explicitly	realized	or	exercised	yet by	most.	Knowledge	work	may	seem	an	idea	limited	to	white-collar	professionals.	That	was	the	initial population	in	the	past	century	that	dealt	with	this,	but	anyone	who	has	moved	out	of	mere	survival	mode finds	himself	or	herself	in	this	game.	Any	parent	who	has	ever	wondered	what	class	to	choose	for	a	child	or what	digital	device	to	give	him	or	her	is	in	this	category. 


*
See	Baumeister’s	validating	research,	referenced	in	chapter	14. 


*
Not	exactly	everything.	Much	of	the	time	my	mind	is	simply	“grazing”—noticing	or	thinking	about	things, and	potentially	maturing	my	awareness	about	something	or	other.	I’m	not	writing	down	thousands	of thoughts	I	have	during	the	day.	Almost	all	are	complete	in	themselves.	It’s	the	ones	that	create	some	open loop	in	my	psyche—a	restaurant	I	read	about	I	might	want	to	try,	an	idea	for	possible	content	for	the revision	of	this	book,	something	I	thought	of	that	I	want	to	do	for	my	wife,	a	question	I	have	for	my accountant,	something	to	get	at	the	hardware	store,	etc. 


*
An	excellent	book	that	covers	this	topic	(and	many	others)	is	 
Willpower:	Rediscovering	the	Greatest
 
Human	Strength
,	by	Roy	Baumeister	and	John	Tierney	(Penguin,	2011). 


*
If,	however,	you	were	handling	the	celebration	for	your	best	friend’s	recent	triumph,	the	complexity	and detail	that	might	accrue	in	your	head	should	warrant	at	least	the	back	of	an	envelope! 


*
You	can	also	plan	nonactionable	projects	and	 
not
	need	a	next	action—for	example,	designing	your	dream house.	The	lack	of	a	next	action	by	default	makes	it	a	“someday/maybe”	project	.	.	.	and	that’s	fine	for anything	of	that	nature. 


*
After-hours	is	actually	a	good	time	to	crank	through	a	group	of	similar	tasks	that	you	wouldn’t	normally do	in	the	course	of	your	typical	workday,	like	filing	a	big	backlog	of	papers,	cleaning	a	desk	drawer,	surfing the	Web	about	your	upcoming	vacation,	or	processing	expense	receipts. 


*
In	many	countries	it	is	difficult	to	find	simple,	inexpensive	folders	for	the	elementary	but	necessary general-reference	system	I	advocate.	You	may	have	to	improvise	to	find	something	workable. 


*
Since	the	original	publication	of	 
Getting	Things	Done
,	scores	of	software	programs	have	emerged	using the	core	GTD	methodology	as	a	basis	for	their	models.	Most	are	simply	digital	and	mobile	to-do	and	task list	managers,	with	a	variety	of	enhancements,	connections,	and	graphic	views. 


*
A	great	time	to	do	this	is	Christmas	Eve	day,	or	some	similar	near-holiday	that	falls	on	a	workday.	Most people	are	in	“party	mode”	anyway,	so	it’s	an	ideal	opportunity	to	get	funky	and	clean	house. 


*
If	you	have	previously	implemented	some	version	of	the	GTD	methodology	and	have	action	and	project lists	set	up,	but	the	contents	are	not	current	and	sufficiently	active,	you	are	usually	better	off	printing	them out,	putting	them	back	in	your	in-tray	to	use	as	raw	input	again,	and	starting	anew.	You	don’t	want	to	be refreshing	a	new	version	of	your	system	with	outdated	material	inside. 


*
Obsessive-compulsive	hoarding	is	another	matter,	and	a	condition	to	be	dealt	with	outside	the	scope	of	this methodology	and	my	expertise. 


*
Many	people	(even	those	who	are	high-tech	oriented),	once	they	experience	the	value	of	writing	a	single thought	on	a	single	piece	of	paper,	have	made	it	part	of	their	ongoing	self-management	practice.	It’s	great	to give	your	potentially	meaningful	thoughts	their	due! 


*
One	of	your	extra	stack	trays	is	ideal	for	this	purpose.	Use	it	temporarily	during	this	initial	processing	to gather	things	to	organize	later.	Afterward	you	can	use	it	to	hold	pending	work-in-progress	papers	and physical	reminders	of	next	actions. 


*
One	thrust	in	personal	productivity	technology	(to	some	degree	precipitated	by	the	popularity	of	this	GTD


methodology)	is	the	development	of	location-based	reminders.	Your	mobile	device	will	sense	(given	your GPS	reading)	that	you	are	at	a	hardware	store,	or	at	home,	or	downtown,	and	it	will	then	alert	you	to	actions tied	to	that	physical	environment.	This	makes	sense	in	principle,	but	in	practice,	with	all	the	variables involved	and	the	desirability	to	overview	our	total	inventory	of	actions	from	multiple	angles,	these	will	only be	useful	as	a	nice	option	to	add	to	a	rigorously	managed	list,	as	part	of	a	totally	reviewed	and	integrated system.	Assuming	this	will	keep	your	head	clear	and	not	miss	something	you’d	want	to	see	is	still	quite overoptimistic	about	that	technology	and	its	usage. 


*
I	use	Agenda	in	the	U.S./American	meaning—items	to	cover	with	someone	or	in	a	meeting	(vs. 


“calendar,”	“schedule,”	or	“diary”	in	other	cultures). 


*
Digital	list	managers	(as	well	as	low-tech	papers	in	separate	folders)	have	an	advantage	here	because	they let	you	easily	move	an	item	from	one	category	to	another	as	the	action	changes,	without	your	having	to rewrite	or	rethink	anything. 


*
This	approach	can	be	dangerous,	however,	if	you	don’t	put	those	“Bills	to	Pay”	or	“Receipts	to	Process”	in front	of	your	face	as	consistently	as	you	should.	Just	having	them	“organized”	isn’t	sufficient	to	get	them off	your	mind—you’ve	also	got	to	trust	that	you	will	appropriately	review	and	deal	with	them. 


*
If	you	happen	to	have	a	lifestyle	that	seldom	has	more	than	one	screenful	of	un-dealt-with	e-mails	at	any one	time,	simply	keeping	them	there	as	a	reminder	of	your	work	at	hand	would	probably	suffice.	As	soon	as the	volume	expands	to	something	you	can’t	see	at	a	glance,	then	organizing	them	outside	your	“in”	area makes	much	more	sense. 


*
Some	e-mail	applications	allow	you	to	move	or	connect	your	e-mails	into	a	Task	list	or	area,	which	can work	equally	well.	It	will	require,	however,	getting	sufficiently	familiar	with	that	function	within	the software	to	make	it	easy	and	seamless. 


*
As	I	write	this,	I’m	in	the	throes	of	moving	from	California	to	Europe.	For	many	months,	I	maintained	one project	on	my	Projects	list:	“Move	to	Amsterdam.”	Last	week,	as	things	became	more	immediate	and necessary	to	deal	with	on	multiple	fronts,	I	unpacked	that	one	project	into	fifteen—all	of	which	I	need	to keep	my	eyes	on	weekly	now,	ranging	from	“Set	up	Dutch	bank	accounts”	to	“Finalize	artwork	storage	in Santa	Barbara.” 


*
Software	technology	will	continue	to	advance	the	automation	of	workflow,	with	CRMs	and	other applications	programmed	to	trigger	action	reminders,	etc.	In	theory	this	would	reduce	the	need	for individual	tracking	of	such	items.	In	practice,	each	person	still	must	engage	with	the	work	he	or	she	is accountable	for,	generated	by	the	software,	and	managing	that	within	his	or	her	holistic	system. 


Additionally,	the	variables	in	our	engagements	and	their	activities	are	often	so	subtle	and	fast	changing, even	the	most	sophisticated	technology	will	fall	short	of	being	totally	trusted	for	such	detailed	direction	in the	foreseeable	future. 


*
As	a	bit	of	a	foodie,	I	have	kept	track	of	any	restaurant	around	the	world	I	might	want	to	patronize	(from experience	or	referrals).	It’s	in	a	software	application	that	allows	me	to	look	under,	for	example,	“Locales—


London—Restaurants”	and	see	my	list.	Just	that	one	topic,	restaurants	I	might	want	to	visit,	populates hundreds	of	folders	and	subfolders	on	my	computer. 


*
If	you	are	using	a	group-accessible	calendar,	you	obviously	must	maintain	discretion	about	those	kinds	of triggers.	Digital	calendars	usually	have	“private”	categorization	functions	you	can	use	for	entries	you	don’t necessarily	want	everyone	to	see. 


*
Also	referred	to	as	a	“suspense,”	“bring	forward,”	“perpetual,”	or	“follow-up”	file. 


*
A	powerful	exposition	of	this	function	and	its	value	(and	the	costs	of	not	paying	attention	to	it!)	was	laid out	in	Atul	Gawande’s	book	 
The	Checklist	Manifesto:	How	to	Get	Things	Right
	(Metropolitan	Books, 2009). 


*
This	is	especially	true	if	other	people	have	authority	to	add	entries	to	your	calendar.	It’s	very	easy	to	be uncomfortably	surprised	with	meetings	you	suddenly	notice	that	were	scheduled	by	someone	else! 


*
There	are	myriad	ways	to	give	it	all	up.	You	can	ignore	the	physical	world	and	its	realities	and	trust	in	the universe.	I	did	that	at	one	point,	in	my	own	particular	way,	and	it	was	a	powerful	experience.	And	one	I wouldn’t	wish	on	anyone.	I	tried	to	check	out	of	my	practical	connections,	though	I	didn’t	choose	to	end	my life	(but	it	was	a	close	call!).	I	had	much	to	learn	about	cooperating	with	the	world	I’d	chosen	to	play	in. 


But	surrendering	to	your	inner	awareness,	and	its	intelligence	and	advice	for	the	worlds	you	live	in,	is	the higher	ground.	Trusting	yourself	and	the	source	of	your	intelligence	is	the	most	elegant	version	of experiencing	freedom	and	manifesting	personal	productivity. 


*
In	an	ideal	world,	you	could	see	all	your	next-action	reminders	any	way	you	wanted	to	see	them:	time, brain-power,	location,	or	tool	required;	emotional	payoff;	area	of	life	served;	goals	and	projects	supported. 


The	issue	is:	How	much	structure	is	too	much,	for	the	potential	value	of	it?	If	you	have	to	think	and	work too	much	to	input	content	into	your	system,	you	won’t	do	it.	The	digital	applications	for	list	and	category management	increasingly	give	us	more	opportunities	to	slice	and	dice	our	information	in	multiple	new ways,	but	care	must	always	be	taken	to	evaluate	if	the	energy	required	to	utilize	the	system	in	the	“heat	of battle”	is	worth	it.	(You	could	have	created	this	context-specific	sorting	functionality	since	the	first	software spreadsheet	programs	were	introduced,	by	structuring	columns	and	building	sorting	macros.	But	do	I	need to	go	through	all	that	just	to	insert	“Call	my	brother”	as	a	reminder?!)


*
Granted,	it’s	a	fine	line	between	something	that	doesn’t	require	a	lot	of	energy	because	it’s	the	most productive	thing	to	do	in	the	moment	and	doing	it	to	avoid	doing	the	tougher	stuff	you	know	you	 
ought
	to be	doing! 


*
This	is	very	likely	one	reason	someone	may	resist	the	acceptance	and	implementation	of	the	 
Getting
 
Things	Done	
 methodology.	Some	of	those	higher-horizon	issues,	which	consequently	may	surface,	would be	too	unpleasant	to	confront.	Being	busy	and	overwhelmed	can	be,	paradoxically,	at	least	a	temporarily effective	way	to	stay	comfortable. 


*
A	great	use	of	the	camera	function	in	smartphones	is	to	snap	pictures	of	whiteboard	and	easel-pad thinking,	so	that	can	be	erased	for	further	brainstorming	and	the	results	channeled	back	to	the	participants for	whatever	use	they	might	want	to	make	of	it. 


*
What	if	paper	was	 
just	
 discovered?	Wow!	Something	that	allows	you	a	visual	map	of	your	digital information,	which	you	can	manipulate	and	communicate	physically	and	visually?	And	something	that	can capture,	facilitate,	and	share	creative	thinking,	without	batteries	or	electricity?	Wow. 


*
It	has	been	a	popular	concept	in	the	self-help	world	that	focusing	on	your	values	will	simplify	your	life.	I contend	the	opposite:	the	overwhelming	amount	of	things	that	people	have	to	do	 
comes
 
from
	their	values. 


Values	are	critical	elements	for	meaning	and	direction	and	decision	making.	But	don’t	kid	yourself—the more	you	focus	on	them,	the	more	things	you’re	likely	to	feel	responsible	for	taking	action	on.	Your	values make	it	easier	for	you	to	make	choices,	but	don’t	think	they	will	make	things	any	simpler. 


*
I	am	tempted,	but	hesitant,	to	use	the	word	 
skill
	in	this	case.	We	all	already	have	the	 
ability
	to	make	a	next-action	decision.	We	do	it	all	the	time,	thousands	of	times	a	day,	but	mostly	unconsciously.	Yet	making	that decision	before	we	 
have
	to	about	things	we’re	committed	to	move	on	is	a	powerful	and	elegant	cognitive behavior	pattern	that	can	be	learned,	practiced,	and	integrated.	It	is	a	core	element	of	“knowledge-work athletics.”	And	most	people	don’t	do	it	in	that	manner,	about	even	the	most	important	things	in	their	lives. 


*
One	of	the	biggest	productivity	leaks	I	have	seen	in	some	organizations	is	the	lack	of	next	actions determined	for	long-term	projects.	Long-term	does	not	mean	“someday/maybe.”	Those	projects	with	distant goal	lines	are	still	to	be	done	as	soon	as	possible;	long-term	simply	means	“more	action	steps	until	it’s done,”	not	“no	need	to	decide	next	actions	because	the	day	of	reckoning	is	so	far	away.”	When	every project	and	open	loop	in	an	organization	is	being	monitored,	it’s	a	whole	new	ball	game. 


*
An	interesting	phenomenon	I	have	noticed	more	than	once	is	that	for	some	highly	energetic	people, incorporating	the	 
Getting	Things	Done
	mind-set	turbocharges	their	busy	and	creative	lifestyle	to	a	new	level of	discomfort	(“Now	I	can	really	get	a	lot	 
more
	done,	and	faster!”),	and	they	then	take	the	opportunity	for healthy	self-examination	about	how	important	that	really	is	versus	more	quality-of-life	kinds	of	outcomes they	may	crave. 


*
Francis	Heylighen	and	Clément	Vidal,	“Getting	Things	Done:	The	Science	Behind	Stress-Free Productivity,”  
Long	Range	Planning
	41,  
 
 no.	6	(2008):	585–605. 


*
 
The	Organized	Mind:	Thinking	Straight	in	the	Age	of	Information	Overload, 
	Daniel	J.	Levitin	(New	York: Dutton,	2014). 


*
Heylighen’s	background	and	expertise	is	in	analyzing	insect	behavior—how	relatively	brainless	creatures produce	phenomenally	effective	results.	He	makes	a	fascinating	case	for	us	humans	to	do	likewise,	with 
Getting	Things	Done
	as	a	key	platform. 


*
Roy	F.	Baumeister	and	E.	J.	Masicampo,	“Unfulfilled	Goals	Interfere	with	Tasks	That	Require	Executive Functions,”  
Journal	of	Experimental	Social	Psychology
	47,	no.	2	(2011):	300–11. 


*
Roy	F.	Baumeister	and	E.	J.	Masicampo,	“Consider	It	Done!	Plan	Making	Can	Eliminate	the	Cognitive Effects	of	Unfulfilled	Goals,”  
Journal	of	Personality	and	Social	Psychology
	101,	no.	4	(2011):	667–83. 


*
Roy	F.	Baumeister	and	John	Tierney,  
Willpower
:	Discovering	the	Greatest	Human	Strength	(New	York: Penguin	Press,	2011). 


*
Mihaly	Csikszentmihalyi,  
Flow:	The	Psychology	of	Optimal	Experience
	(New	York:	Harper	Perennial, 1990). 


*
M.	Csikszentmihalyi	and	J.	LeFevre,	“Optimal	Experience	in	Work	and	Leisure,”  
Journal	of	Personality
 
and	Social	Psychology
	56,	no.	5	(1989):	815–22. 


*
Clive	Fullagar	and	E.	Kevin	Kelloway,	“Work-Related	Flow,”	in	 
A	Day	in	the	Life	of	a	Happy	Worker,	ed. 


 
Arnold	B.	Bakker	and	Kevin	Daniels	(New	York:	Psychology	Press,	2013), 
	41–57. 


*
Christopher	P.	Neck	and	Charles	C.	Manz,  
Mastering	Self-Leadership:	Empowering	Yourself	for	Personal
 
Excellence, 
	6th	ed.	(Upper	Saddle	River,	NJ:	Pearson	Prentice-Hall,	2012),	192. 


*
Peter	M.	Gollwitzer	and	Gabrielle	Oettingen,	“Planning	Promotes	Goal	Striving,”	in	Kathleen	D.	Vohs and	Roy	F.	Baumeister,	eds.,  
Handbook	of	Self-Regulation:	Research,	Theory,	and	Applications, 
	2nd	ed. 


(New	York:	Guilford,	2011),	162–85. 


*
F.	Luthans,	B.	J.	Avolio,	J.	B.	Avey,	and	S.	M.	Norman,	“Positive	Psychological	Capital:	Measurement and	Relationship	with	Performance	and	Satisfaction,”	Personnel	Psychology	60,	no.	3	(2007):	541–72. 


*
T.	Sun,	X.	W.	Zhao,	L.	B.	Yang,	and	L.	H.	Fan,	“The	Impact	of	Psychological	Capital	on	Job Embeddedness	and	Job	Performance	Among	Nurses:	A	Structural	Equation	Approach,”  
Journal	of
 
Advanced	Nursing
 
68
,	no.	1	(2012):	69–79,	doi:10.1111/j.1365	-2648.2011.05715.x. 


*
J.	B.	Avey,	F.	Luthans,	R.	M.	Smith,	and	N.	F.	Palmer,	“Impact	of	Positive	Psychological	Capital	on Employee	Well-being	Over	Time,”  
Journal	of	Occupational	Health	Psychology
 
15
,	no.	1	(2010):	17–28, doi:10.1037/a0016998. 


*
One	of	my	favorite	sayings	is,	“The	better	you	get,	the	better	you’d	better	get!”	The	more	confidence	you have	that	you	can	actually	manifest	things	before	you	have	all	the	knowledge	and	resources	you	might	need, the	more	you	can	potentially	overwhelm	yourself	with	your	own	possibilities.	So	the	clarity	and	confidence that	your	GTD	practices	allow	simultaneously	demand	their	ongoing	utilization. 


*
We’re	available.	Visit	www.gettingthingsdone.com	anytime	for	tons	of	free	support	material, conversations	and	stories	about	these	best	practices	from	people	like	you,	current	information	about supportive	products	and	services,	and	access	to	our	global	network	of	people	sharing	in	this	methodology. 




 
What’s	next	on


 
your	reading	list? 


Discover	your	next


great	read! 


Get	personalized	book	picks	and	up-to-date	news	about	this	author. 


Sign	up	now. 













Document Outline




About the Author


Praise for David Allen


Title Page


Copyright


Contents


Dedication


Acknowledgments


Foreword


Introduction to the Revised Edition


Welcome to Getting Things Done


part 1: The Art of Getting Things Done




Chapter 1: A New Practice for a New Reality


Chapter 2: Getting Control of Your Life: The Five Steps of Mastering Workflow


Chapter 3: Getting Projects Creatively Under Way: The Five Phases of Project Planning






part 2: Practicing Stress-Free Productivity




Chapter 4: Getting Started: Setting Up the Time, Space, and Tools


Chapter 5: Capturing: Corralling Your “Stuff” 


Chapter 6: Clarifying: Getting “In” to Empty


Chapter 7: Organizing: Setting Up the Right Buckets


Chapter 8: Reflecting: Keeping It All Fresh and Functional


Chapter 9: Engaging: Making the Best Action Choices


Chapter 10: Getting Projects Under Control






part 3: The Power of the Key Principles




Chapter 11: The Power of the Capturing Habit


Chapter 12: The Power of the Next-Action Decision


Chapter 13: The Power of Outcome Focusing


Chapter 14: GTD and Cognitive Science


Chapter 15: The Path of GTD Mastery


Conclusion






Appendix


Glossary of Getting Things Done Terms


Index






















