





Samara Bay




PERMISSION TO SPEAK


How to Change What Power Sounds Like, Starting with You















PENGUIN BOOKS


UK | USA | Canada | Ireland | Australia
New Zealand | India | South Africa


Penguin Books is part of the Penguin Random House group of companies whose addresses can be found at 
global.penguinrandomhouse.com
.




First published in the United States of America by Crown, in imprint of Random House, a division of Penguin Random House LLC 2023
First published in Great Britain by Penguin Business 2023


Copyright © The Wild Voice, Inc., 2023


The moral right of the copyright holder has been asserted


Follow us on LinkedIn: 
https://www.linkedin.com/company/penguin-connect/


ISBN: 978-0-241-48641-2


This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorized distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the author’s and publisher’s rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.













To the moms













INTRODUCTION


The New Sound of Power




What we need is some old-fashioned consciousness-raising about what we mean by the “voice of authority” and how we’ve come to construct it.


—MARY BEARD,
 
Women & Power: A Manifesto
1




At my local indie bookstore on the Eastside of Los Angeles, I got to chatting with the cashier. She asked what I was going to call the book I was writing, and when I told her, the man behind me in the queue—tall, redheaded, and rosy-cheeked—piped up with a guffaw: “Permission to speak? That’s not something I’ve ever waited for!”


The cashier and I shared a delicious look. 
Precisely, sir. Precisely.


This book … is not for him.


When I was twenty-four, I lost my voice. I needed this book—pretty desperately. I remember most mornings I’d be able to speak, my voice tentative but at least audible, but by evening it’d be gone again. I would push through to talk during the day, feeling a constant scraping in my throat, the effort of it stealing my energy and thrashing my spirit. Something was very wrong, but I didn’t know what. Was I sick? Was I broken?


I was living in Providence, Rhode Island, halfway through a graduate program in acting—a dream I had fought for—but in truth, it was a terrible fit. I was desperately lonely, and now 
feeling ever more isolated because I couldn’t even talk. I dropped out of the play I was in. I attended classes like a ghost, aware of my every impulse to communicate and how I’d squelch each one. I stopped calling friends and my parents on the phone because it hurt too much. I definitely stopped laughing. Nights, in the dead of winter, I would huddle in the one-room guesthouse I was renting, drinking tea with honey, wondering what my voice was trying to tell me and why I couldn’t just be 
normal
.


It turned out, I had the beginnings of vocal nodules, pissed off little blisters developing on my vocal cords. I still have the alien-looking photo of my V-shaped cords the doctor captured by running a tiny camera up my nose and down my throat, and remember him pointing out where they were rubbing against each other—aka, at the wrong spot. It turned out, I had picked up a habit of speaking that was a bit lower than my body’s preferred pitch. It turned out, the fix was relatively minor. And with the help of a speech pathologist during winter break, I worked on a slightly new way of speaking that felt strange until it didn’t, and ushered myself back into the land of the living.


But I was left with major questions: Why had I picked up this habit that had unleashed such chaos on my life? Had there been some sort of payoff for me to speak this way? Or was it simply “bad usage,” as the head of my acting program pronounced it in front of the whole class, with a 
tsk
 in his voice, when I’d first returned from the doctor with the diagnosis. Like he was accusing me of messing up my voice on purpose. Like I could have 
chosen
 good, healthy speaking, but I chose bad instead—out of, what? Laziness?


And there was the question that took shape more slowly as I began to share my brush with nodules post-graduation and 
began to hear others’ stories: Was I actually abnormal? I wondered how many others experienced a hard-to-place, out-of-sync feeling between their bodies and voices. How many women especially, it seemed, spoke in ways that weren’t natural and free because they had heard whispers in their own heads that said: 
You’re not talking right.
 Or 
You’re not speaking up like you should.
 Or 
You don’t sound like what powerful people sound like—what is wrong with you?


Maybe you’ve heard these whispers yourself. Maybe you’ve even heard them voiced aloud by well-intentioned mentors or bosses who took you aside for “just a word of advice.” Maybe you’ve been the recipient of a gentle warning that no one will take you seriously if you keep saying “like” so much, or if you remain so soft-spoken. Or maybe you’ve been told you sound too angry or strident or pushy or shrill, or you speak with an accent or a particular style of speech that codes for unprofessional or undereducated, according to those well-meaning educated professionals.


Bad usage, bad usage, bad usage.


Empowerment gurus and memes everywhere say “find your voice,” but we don’t talk enough about why these voices of ours may have gone missing. We don’t talk about why exactly it’s hard to give ourselves permission to speak as readily as that jovial gentleman behind me at the bookstore. Spoiler alert: it’s not our fault. There is a certain kind of voice we’ve all grown up hearing that sounds like command and conviction. It’s John F. Kennedy in the clips we watched in school and Winston Churchill’s rousing wartime oratory. It’s Steve Jobs delivering his famous Stanford commencement speech and Tom Hanks sitting on the late-night couch charming everyone and Stephen Colbert bantering with him across the desk.


Look, it’s not their fault either; they just said what they came to say. But these men—these straight, white, rich, remarkably large men—have defined easy authority for generations. They are what being taken seriously 
sounds
 like. They are who a whole lot of our parents, and their parents, and their parents, reflexively offered the benefit of the doubt. They are who we tend to believe. They are our experts and anchors and leaders and heroes. They represent the standard voice of authority as much as a symmetrical, light-skinned, youthful appearance represents the standard of beauty, even if we know ogling dumb photoshopped pictures of models in magazines and influencers on social media will only make us feel inadequate. Sometimes, when we’re not being vigilant, we don’t even realize we’re doing it—
we just don’t like the way we look.


The problem with the voice standard is the same: when you or I want to become experts or leaders, we’re stuck trying to approximate the speech of powerful men, just as we might feel stuck spending too much time debating injections or trying to lose that extra weight. And maybe you don’t even realize you’re doing it—
you just don’t like the sound of your voice.
 That’s how standards work; they’re everywhere, so, like a fish, you don’t notice the water.


But take a course on “executive presence” or do a search for how to sound like a leader, and the advice will be suspiciously consistent. Keep your voice “low” and “steady,” they’ll say. Avoid getting “emotional” or “sounding singsongy,” “tighten up” your words, don’t use “uptalk” at the end of your statements, for heaven’s sake, and keep a measured pace, at about “75 percent of your normal rate.” That’s the standard. That’s what power traditionally sounds like. That’s, as famed British classicist Dr. Mary Beard says, the voice of authority as we’ve 
come to construct it. Run all your own instincts through this rubric or run the risk of getting laughed at, undermined, or ignored.


I mean, honestly, is it any wonder we end up feeling uncomfortable speaking in public? Of course we worry we’re not talking right or using “um” or “uh” too much instead of speaking fluidly. Of course we wind up with mindgunk, complexes about sounding too soft or too harsh or too high-pitched or too girly or too informal or too foreign, and have picked up habits to counter these fears. There are traditions! Standards! And a whole industry—not as conspicuous as the beauty industry, but effectively reaching all corners of mainstream culture nonetheless—telling us how to sound if we want to succeed. And the answer is like a straight, white, rich, remarkably large man.


Hi. This book is for the rest of us. It’s for those of us who’d also enjoy knowing what it feels like to just say what we came to say. For those of us who wonder, is it possible? To really 
show up
 when we show up, as whole, coherent people in sync with our bodies and our voices, ready to land our message, own the room, and find ridiculous amounts of joy in speaking to our public? Joy, after all, is what those standards rob us of—having 
fun
 when we speak up. Anxiety about how we sound distracts us from loving on our audience and letting them love us back with wild abandon. It spoils the sheer pleasure of being seen and heard and absolutely adored for what we’ve come to say and do. How 
could
 we be seen and heard when we’re scrambling to hide the parts of ourselves that don’t fit the standard and squeezing our voices into the mold that was never meant to fit us? In philosopher Bertrand Russell’s Nobel Prize speech, he said, “
Look at me
 is one of the most fundamental 
desires of the human heart.”
2
 Look at me, yes. Yes, Bertrand. But on my own terms. See me and hear me for who I am and what I need to do in the world. Listen to me speak in a voice that is shamelessly, utterly, wantonly 
mine
.


So, instead of becoming an actor, I became someone who helps with that—the riotous process of bringing your best self into your most public moments. In a way, maybe I was preparing for it my whole life. I was a preteen obsessed with Shakespeare, sitting in the audience of my hometown theater festival watching modern takes of the plays performed outdoors in a redwood forest. I nerded out hard on the language and the heartbeat rhythm of the text, and was fascinated even then by what it is to open our mouths and change the energy in a space.


There was also my favorite movie as a kid, 
My Fair Lady,
 the musical about a poor British flower girl trained to sound fancy as a social experiment orchestrated by a misogynistic dialect coach. I would repeat the cockney phrases and practice doing impressions like I was the newest cast member of 
Saturday Night Live
. My other favorite subject was Marilyn Monroe, who was also a social experiment in building a persona on a very public stage: The made-up name. The bottle blonde. But above all, the iconic breathy voice. Maybe I’ve always been intrigued by the relationship between how we sound and how we’re treated. Or, to put agency into the idea, the nitty-gritty means by which we come to own how we present in the world.


Of note: there were also these physics conferences all around the world that I grew up attending with my parents for my dad’s work—I didn’t realize quite how unconventional an upbringing this was till I went off to college. But I vividly remember brunching with Stephen Hawking and sitting in on endless talks about the universe at palaces in the Loire Valley 
in France and monasteries off Lake Como. Physicists have impressive taste in venues. But I had come to the conclusion quite young that no matter how magnificent the forum, apparently speaking in front of an audience was 
supposed
 to be dry and unemotional. (The few standouts from those years were of such a different nature, they stayed with me. Was it just dumb luck? Innate charisma? A stand-up comedian moonlighting in a serious field?)


And there was college. I got into Princeton and left the West Coast for adventure and all-nighters, pulling off the great trick of earning an English degree by reading plays—short and almost entirely dialogue. I acted in and directed plays too. I thought I was constructing a life in the theater; really, I was laying the groundwork for a life coaching people to express themselves on a much bigger stage.


At first, out of school, I coached actors focusing on accents and dialects. I lucked into collecting two of New York’s best dialect coaches as mentors and they graciously threw me jobs when they had surplus, even before I believed I was ready. I was a proud member of the Broadway and off-Broadway theater scene and then a giddy Angeleno as I began working in television and film—spending hundreds of hours prepping clients at dining-room tables and in quiet trailers right near set, easing them into speaking a slightly new way. A good ear isn’t the only art of it, I realized early on; giving clients permission to play and integrate and be bad at something before they’re good—that’s the secret.


Word spread and I got to coach on indie darlings like 
Loving
 and massive Hollywood blockbusters like 
Wonder Woman: 1984,
 and on TV series like 
American Crime Story: Versace, Black Mirror,
 and 
Hunters
. Along the way, a program in Los 
Angeles that teaches people from any industry how to be a television host or on-camera expert asked me to lead voice classes, and I found I could consistently zero in on the participants’ vocal hang-ups and offer gentle advice that worked. With my dad in mind, I wrote to the Alan Alda Center for Communicating Science back in New York, and they flew me out to train in their method of coaching scientists to connect better to their students and the public. Then Microsoft called, and a social-media giant wanting a workshop for their female employees to help them speak up more freely. I developed presentations for Tory Burch’s foundation, Chief, and Create & Cultivate, and I partnered with MoveOn.org, who needed coaches to support first-time candidates for office. I coached TED Talkers and United Nations presenters and a delegate to W20 (the women’s G20 organization) and a global pop star on an award-show speech that was making him uncharacteristically nervous. I pitched a podcast to iHeartRadio—the first one 
about
 how we speak, in a medium made for it—and they bought it in the room.


My way into this work was dialect coaching, but the truth is, the tête-à-têtes I’ve had with my actors over the years during their career crises and bold power plays have shaped my work as much as coaching them on sounds has. This book isn’t a tell-all, and intimate details and most names have been changed. But suffice it to say: coaching movie stars has been an incredible lesson in how to work the power we have, generate the power we don’t, and find our people so we set fire, rise, and celebrate together.


And now I coach everyone. Or rather, I coach everyone who needs help uncovering a voice they might eventually call their own, independent of those ill-fitting, old-fashioned standards: 
entrepreneurs and CEOs and new political candidates and creative types and moms going back to work and celebrities too. I coach women on a mission, and not just women: immigrants, people of color, queer folks and those who reject binary labels, those of you who worry you’re too big or too small, those who are in toxic masculinity recovery, those who want to fit in and those who want to stand out. (By the way, I use “woman” and “her” a lot in this book, but that’s because centering women is a practice, not because this work is exclusive. If you see yourself in these pages, welcome. I bet even Bookstore Man could use a little help.)


Maybe you’re here because you’ve got a can’t-quite-put-your-finger-on-it sense that you’re not using your voice right. Maybe you feel stuck. Maybe you’ve got an itch to evolve your attitude about speaking up from 
I hate this
 to literally anything else. Or maybe you’ve got an urge for, I’m just gonna say it, 
more power
. After all, a lot of us have begun to hear—perhaps quietly or perhaps so loudly it drowns out everything else—what civil rights activists and feminist firebrands have been shouting for hundreds of years: both prestige power (leadership roles in the workplace and government) and everyday power (getting through a conversation without interruption, or, hell, just getting home safely) aren’t doled out fairly.


On the one hand, duh. On the other hand, a whole lot of us who grew up in the ’80s and ’90s were sold a bill of goods that went something like: “Our mothers fought for equality so we wouldn’t have to,” and “Congratulations, we live in a post-sexist nation!” The inevitable tension between the moments in our own lives that didn’t fit this narrative and the sheer comfort of the narrative itself played on each of us differently; we turned a blind eye, we internalized it, we kept our heads down. 
Or maybe you actually did speak up and you were met by schools or institutions in no way equipped to handle a complaint that threatened to rend the beautiful lie. 
Everyone’s equal. Everything’s fair. Chill out. Shh.


I am here to say, please don’t shh. Thinking about your voice is thinking about your power. And that means looking at your own voice story—the lifetime of habits you’ve likely formed as a functioning member of a dysfunctional society—and then choosing to own those habits or scuttle them. This book will help, by offering you the permission and tools you need to change the story and find your voice. Maybe you’ve got a habit of going quiet when you’re uncomfortable or maybe your voice ends up sounding a bit disembodied. Maybe your throat clamps up and you strain when you speak so the sound comes out raspy. Or maybe you always sound “nice” when all eyes are on you. Maybe you speak in monotone, pressing down on your throat so you don’t come across as too enthusiastic in a context where you’d rather seem cool. Maybe you fear getting it wrong or not being perfect or taking up too much time.


When we step out of our comfort zone, whether it’s to try out new sounds in our mouths like those actors or to speak to a larger crowd than we ever have before, our bodies go wild. You’ve probably noticed this. Alongside general nerves, each of our unique insecurities comes into play, flustering our senses and waking up a lifetime of dormant messages. Maybe you were constantly told as a child to be quiet, or to speak up more. To stop mumbling or sound more proper. Maybe you’ve been rewarded because your voice makes you seem young in an industry that prizes youth, or unintimidating in a world that prefers you not threaten the powers that be. This voice of yours in high-stakes scenarios is riddled with habits based on where 
you’re from plus what you’ve done to get by in rooms of power every day since.


And whether you want to or not, all of these habits help you hide. Some of them can still help you get what you want some of the time, and that’s valuable intel. Some you’re likely sick of, and some soothe because they’re what you’re used to. But this is the important part: we are not our habits. Our habits have formed, more often than not, to serve someone who is not us. And they’ve formed to hold us back from our power.


Let me be clear. When I say power, what I mean is respect. When I say power, what I mean is control over our bodies and our finances and our destinies. When I say power, what I mean is the opportunity to run the show and feel our feelings and want what we want and love what we love and rest when we please and leave the room in gales of laughter. I mean, if we could all magically sound however we damn well please and still gain and retain power, we wouldn’t just embrace our voice and stop worrying about how we’re perceived. 
We would not have the voice we have today.
 We’d have one that’s richer, more relaxed, more expansive, expressive, unlimited by social norms and alive with possibility. We would sound like the person we are around our favorite people. We would sound free. We would speak with permission.


Fortunately, the world is changing and has changed, and experts and anchors and leaders and heroes have emerged from your community and mine who don’t fit any of those pat demographic labels we’d use to describe Tom Hanks. They represent a new sound of power, or an array of new sounds of power. (This new sound of power doesn’t sound only one way. It must not; the diversity is the point. That our voices reflect our life experiences is the point. That each of us sounds like a lifetime 
of 
lifetime
 is the point.) There’s Oprah, of course, and Jacinda Ardern and Lizzo and Ai-jen Poo and Jameela Jamil and Dolores Huerta and Mona Eltahawy and Bozoma Saint John and Dr. Amani Ballour and Rabbi Sharon Brous and Representative Katie Porter with her dry-erase board and Alok Vaid-Menon and others in the pages to follow. And men who dare to sound whole as well, Baratunde Thurston and Harry Styles and Senator Cory Booker and Justin Baldoni and the guests on his podcast, and my client Édgar Ramírez speaking against Latin machismo on behalf of the #heforshe campaign. And our emerging leaders, Amanda Gorman and Greta Thunberg and Malala Yousafzai and X González and local activists and your own kids and your friends’ kids.


And there’s you. I imagine you are on the precipice of launching yourself into fresh and exciting circles of power; it’s why you’re here and it’s what I wish for you, if it’s what you want. There are conferences and meet-ups and life-changing pitches just around the bend. Plus, thanks to what journalist Jia Tolentino calls the “monetization of selfhood,”
3
 the digital platforms that permeate our daily lives offer each of us the chance, or saddle each of us with the obligation, to jump onto the bully pulpit. These platforms nudge us to brand ourselves but also to show up with authenticity and vulnerability (which are just words to get at that experience of watching someone speak who seems like a whole, coherent person). They nudge us to rack up eyeballs and engagement, but also to stand for something. “In the end,”
4
 said Martin Luther King, Jr., “we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.” So here we are, figuring out what exactly the opposite of silence 
sounds like
.


This is what I know: breaking habits is about getting curi
ous, trying out alternatives, and reveling in the new sounds that pop out, even if they’re strange at first. Breaking habits is about discovering what’s nonnegotiable (sometimes you don’t need to change at all—it’s the world that’s got to come around, and you find that line and you hold it). And breaking habits is a thing we do together, normalizing our vocal drama and talking about it at the level of the problem, which is global, not alone, huddled with a cup of tea and private doubts.


Because we are not individually broken. We are collectively creating new standards, which is confounding and awkward and hope-fueled and a true joy if we do it for one another and 
with
 one another.


Voice work is actually super fun. Navigating what bell hooks called our imperialist, white-supremacist, capitalist patriarchy … is not.
5
 But finding a space to grapple with how this inherited toxicity has shown up in our bodies and in our voices is a relief. It’s a chance to exhale, to be honest, to swing our ribs wide and take up space together, to get cozy with our alter ego (who might just be us plus permission), to turn the early rumblings of tentative giggles into full-throated laughter at the absolute absurdity of it all. I have come to see my coaching sessions and workshops and now this time with you as a chance to, with mischief in our eye, imagine a better world. And a chance to turn something invisible—a voice, many voices—into a revolution that leads us to that new world together. Because here’s the thing: when we change the story of what power sounds like, we change who has power.


We change who has power.


Keep track of those who speak up in voices that seem entirely unconcerned about the old standards, who just say what they came to say. Notice who’s already doing it. Listen for them 
and think of them as stars mapping the new sound of power across the sky. Just as it is with constellations, we have to search for them and describe the pictures that emerge to each other. Otherwise we blink and they blur back into oblivion—and when we get up to speak in public ourselves, we forget. And we revert to trying to sound like some dude we’re not, trying to talk low and slow and reflect the old sound of power, and the sky remains dark in the patch where our light could shine.


Using our voices well involves changing the way we speak sometimes, but other times deciding that how we speak is just fine, thanks. So, I’m calling it out: there is tension inherent in this work. For you, on any given day, giving yourself permission may be about daring to take big, dangerous risks or daring to make the safe choice and protect yourself. Sometimes we want the thing (the job, the promotion, the vote) and sometimes we want the feeling (integrity, pride, well-being), and if the thing and the feeling are at odds, it’s hard to pick one without self-recriminations.


There are also basic paradoxes of speaking in public that everyone, including JFK, has had to contend with for all of recorded history: how to practice enough that you’re prepared but think on your feet enough that you can pivot in the moment. How to seem confident enough to be credible yet human enough to be believed. How to have fun but speak with the gravitas your subject requires. How to be both a leader and a member of the community, special but relatable.


It can feel impossible, and a little 
why bother?
 And yet. The first time I offered a workshop called “How to Use Your Voice to Get What You Want”—at a women’s conference at my alma mater—I had been told to expect about fifty attendees. It was 
a small breakout workshop on the schedule, wedged in between sessions with power-pose legend Dr. Amy Cuddy and, I kid you not, U.S. Supreme Court justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan. But 465 women signed up and the organizers had to move my workshop to the biggest auditorium on campus. Turns out, a whole lot of us are looking to scale up our lives, influence others, and honor our mission at the magnitude it deserves. To speak into the camera on our phones and broadcast ourselves to our followers, or to speak into a mic and amplify our voices to the back of the ballroom. To ask for that raise or lodge that formal complaint or speak on that panel or say yes to that podcast. To leave the safety and comfort of home to get up in front of an audience and say something that hasn’t yet been said.


As you might have noticed, I define “public speaking” pretty broadly—in fact, I think it might just be speaking in front of people who do not know everything about you already. No matter the forum, it does require courage. But not just courage to get up there despite your audience’s potential judgments across the chasm. No, the real courage is to reject the old conceit of a chasm between speaker and audience at all. Even if you’re the only one talking, it’s a dialogue. What that matters to me, matters to you? What do we share? What do we want in common? That’s like fundamental human coexistence stuff. It’s the promise of belonging and the pleasure of community. It’s saying, 
Let’s care about things together
. Public speaking is just caring about things together, bigger.


How do you sound when you actually believe that? And how do you get there? This book is partly an exploration of how we got here, and mostly a path out. In the coming pages you’ll find stories I hope resonate, frameworks for thinking 
about how to be a whole person in front of other people, tools to notice and name your habits and try out new options, and shout-outs to public moments you can listen to and learn from with a keen ear. It’s a chance to consider who your role models are and what they 
really
 sound like. A chance to get coaching in the form of a hug or a kick in the pants (sometimes what we need is the opposite of what we think). And a chance to hear from luminaries in the fields of public speaking, linguistics, and social science, plus friends and clients in the thick of it, hacking their way out.


They know and I know and now you know: this is a movement, and you’re in it.















1


Breath




I am willing to be seen.
 I am willing to speak up.
 I am willing to keep going.
 I am willing to listen to what others have to say.
 I am willing to go forward even when I feel alone.
 I am willing to go to bed each night at peace with myself.
 I am willing to be my biggest, bestest, most powerful self.
 These seven statements scare the absolute shit out of me. But I know that they are at the crux of it all.


—Emma Watson
1




Hold on a second and just breathe. There’s the regular ol’ in-and-out rhythm that prevails while we sleep or perform mundane tasks; maybe you feel it now. And then there’s the sort of breath that accompanies moments of true surprise in our lives—a warm touch, a punch line, the unexpected sighting of a friend. The rhythm changes and we take in more air than usual. It’s an instinctive response to what’s new and original. It’s the moment I read aloud the pregnancy test pamphlet to my husband to figure out the symbol on the little stick—and stopped mid-word with a gasp. It’s the shaky sigh that followed, full of possibility and pure vulnerability. This breath is life on the move.


But breath is something else too. For almost a decade, “I can’t breathe” has been a rallying cry against the policing of Black bodies, a reminder of how easily a delicate windpipe—or a human—can be mishandled. And when the coronavirus hit, desperate cries for breath resounded in hospitals around the world, in every language humans speak. In order to avoid getting sick we locked ourselves away from others and covered our noses and mouths to literally keep our breath to ourselves. Gathering in a public space, mingling our aspirations and inspirations together, had become dangerous. That very first weekend of the lockdown in the United States, I remember sitting up in bed reading everything I could. Hyperventilating. Thinking, My God, sharing breath might now mean death.


Against this backdrop, it’s no small thing to start to notice your own breath, in trivial moments as well as in moments that scare the absolute shit out of you. Breathing is the easiest thing to do; it sort of just happens, like blinking. And breathing is the hardest thing to do when you’re taking a risk, when that in-breath is preparing to let a feeling or an idea from inside of you 
out,
 and the outcome is uncertain.


But in a way, sharing these breaths in public has always been dangerous. For those of us with fresh perspectives who are inevitably drawn to question conventions, the public has never entirely welcomed our feelings or ideas. We’ve been threatened and discredited and ignored. We’ve lost our jobs and been tried as witches. We’ve not been believed. For anyone outside traditional positions of power, to take a deep breath and speak requires undoing thousands of years of messaging about who gets to have a voice in public and how they get to sound. There’s a whole mythology to reckon with.


Because here’s the deal: when you take a real and full 
breath, air from outside your body is sucked in and then emerges a fraction of a second later 
as you
—as your hopes and dreams, your furies and joys. Your demands. Of course we each need air simply to stay alive, but we each need air to activate our furies and joys as well, and we must activate them if we want to change the story—it’s how we reshape the mythology about who gets to speak in public and how they get to sound. It’s how we become our own new heroes. My dream for you is that when the stakes are enormously high, you step into the moment ready to breathe deeply and let yourself out.


But sometimes we find ourselves in rooms where we are the only one—the only member of our race, or the queer community, the only woman, only person in a wheelchair, only one wearing flashy colors or secondhand clothing or visibly pregnant or speaking with a different accent or willing to lose money to do what’s right. Sometimes we find ourselves in an arena that’s not designed for us to conquer, as Black Lives Matter activist Tamika Mallory says.
2
 That’s when we feel the deep desire to shrink or hide our difference, and a great way to accomplish this disappearing act is to stop taking real breaths.


But sometimes that room is due for a renovation—and maybe you’re feeling up for blueprinting the new design. I’ve seen it over and over, with the clients I’ve coached, with outsiders on big stages everywhere: we are ambitious and bold, on a mission and powered by purpose, primed to conquer the world. But then we get up in front of those whose lapels we are so ready to grab, and … we hold our breath, forcing air through a constricted throat that’s trying to both let us out and keep us in. We speak, but we stifle, and our voices come out raspy or flat. We sound halfhearted. We’re ready to change the story, but our voices haven’t gotten the memo. Maybe we’ve 
braced ourselves for so long—against not belonging, not being enough, against being misunderstood, discounted, or booed off the stage—that we do it now out of habit. And those lapels remain untouched.


I am here to help you break this habit, which is as much about giving yourself permission as it is about reacquainting you with your breath. You have to trust, truly trust, that your body belongs there, and invite yourself into spaces that scare you, wholeheartedly. This kind of trust takes practice, and I’ve got exercises that will help you get there.


And I’ve got some perspective, too, because you are not alone. You are not the only one who senses you don’t belong and whose breath hitches at the thought of declaring what you believe. Our discomfort with speaking in public, which is really discomfort with 
being public,
 is a story that belongs to so many of us, and to our mothers, and grandmothers, and all the black sheep, misfits, and dreamers. None of us were invited to the table when social conventions were drafted eons ago. It helps to keep an eye out for each other now, to notice the other “onlys” and make them feel welcome, allow them to breathe easier. Let yourself imagine us as a collective, let the camaraderie dance on your cheeks, and when you catch each other’s eye perhaps you will see your reflection and breathe easier yourself. There’s nothing like the power of solidarity to pick up the pen and rewrite old conventions. For all of our sakes.


When Vice President Kamala Harris accepted the nomination at the Democratic National Convention in the summer of 2020, she was at times fiery, at times playful. She was conversational and intimate but also drummed up the weight of ceremony and spoke with purpose. It’s worth rewatching as a master class on breath. She starts with “Greetings, America!”
3
 
in a room devoid of the buzz of a crowd, without any of the organic feedback politicians relied on in a pre-pandemic world. But she nonetheless takes in a hearty breath before speaking further—as though breathing in everyone who has helped her get to that stage, as though breathing in her own sense of belonging. She could have shortchanged herself and sped on ahead without breath support, but she didn’t. “It is truly an honor to be speaking with you tonight,” she proceeds, breathing again after this thought. She centers herself with this pause, and uses the air to prompt the next thought, and the next.


You could call this pacing—but I don’t care about a measured tempo. I care that you’re breathing for the thought you want to convey, and for the people who need to hear it—which means that you must be present enough to continually read the room and read yourself. Some statements call for a deliberate delivery with silence at the end so the meaning can reverberate as you look out at your expectant audience. Maybe even a full cycle of breath, in and out and in again, before proceeding. Silence and nothing but a room breathing can be surprisingly powerful. But some statements deserve a hastening rhythm because the momentum itself lends meaning to the statement—often near the end of a speech or the end of an argument, as you build triumphantly toward your conclusion. And you can accomplish this with a speedier, more athletic in-breath. Kamala did it all: she took up space, she honored her message with the right-sized breath for the size of her thoughts, and she was deeply, keenly present.


When we take responsibility for our breaths like that, we have a shot at fully showing up. We have a shot at creating moments of true surprise, life on the move. Rebels take deep breaths; in fact, I believe we need breath support in order to 
rebel. Deep breaths allow us to be audible and visible in our full glory. Deep breaths allow us to bring our whole, human selves into rooms that may not be ready for us and then teach them what they’ve been missing. That’s what changes the story.


And so, this first chapter in a book about the voice is actually about the quiet moment before there’s a voice. It’s about the moment when you’re about to step onstage and you tell yourself, 
Breathe!,
 only to find that you lift your shoulders or puff out your chest and your body responds with more panic, not less. It’s about the moment you reach the mic, look out at your audience, and shortchange yourself by attempting to breathe into a body too sticky from stress or habit to accept the full breath. Or the moment you hold your breath in anticipation and then forget to let it go. It’s about everything that can go wrong and how swiftly, with a bit of help, it can go right.


“If 
you
 don’t support yourself, who will?” I remember the urge to roll my eyes when my high school chorus teacher said this, admonishing us for not breathing enough to hold the note. It sounded so cheesy. Breath support, moral support, get it? But now, I officially retract that eye roll.


There is an extraordinary mind-body connection between how well we allow ourselves to breathe and whether we allow ourselves to believe we’re worth it. And I mean worth anything: higher pay, attention, compassion, power. And it runs in both directions. The better we breathe, the more powerful we feel; the more powerful we feel, the better we breathe. And when we support ourselves—with breath, with belief—we change the world.


It’s funny, because when you and I were born, we knew everything we needed to know about how to breathe. It’s the first 
useful thing babies do for themselves the moment they’re out of the womb, and it remains the most useful thing we do for ourselves each and every day—if we do it well. By which I mean, if we do it with the ease we had as babies, before the world told us how to be—how loud to be, how gentle to be, how much space to take up, how powerful we 
aren’t
.


Breathing well before we speak is the most fundamental way each of us has to either stand up for ourselves or undermine ourselves, and signal to others that they should do the same. If Vice President Harris had taken shallow catch-breaths and strangled her sound in her throat, we would have gotten an entirely different message from her speech that night. Had she done it habitually in the years leading up to that night, I bet she wouldn’t have made it to that stage to begin with. If you have a feeling that this might describe you, it’s not your fault. But you can and must reclaim your breath.


Breathing is deceptively simple. After all, we do it over twenty thousand times a day. And indeed, our body breathes by itself just fine, when we’re sleeping, or going for a run, or laughing with friends. It naturally expands to fuel the activity. But in our bigger moments, when how we speak could change our lives—the presentation, the pitch, the podcast, the promotion, even attempting to set boundaries with a partner or parent—nothing feels natural. And we don’t let ourselves expand nearly enough. Because on a biological level, our bodies still work just like our ancestors’ bodies did hundreds of thousands of years ago: when we’re anxious or sense danger, we release a burst of hormones that direct our breath to become shallow and fast so we can get oxygen to our brain quickly in order to combat the threat. And this occurs to the detriment of everything else. We become tunnel-vision focused on the 
threat, coked up on adrenaline, our heart pumping blood so loudly we can hear it, ready to rush or run.


When it comes to speaking in public, the threat is no longer physical, but rather “those people out there,” watching us and judging us. And even after our body performs this process, those people are 
still out there
. Only now they’re watching a version of us that feels less and less recognizably like us; we’ve become a panicky, flushed parody of a person just trying to hold it together, let alone fulfill our purpose. Our body knows how to mobilize all of its fight-or-flight faculties to take on the challenge of a bear hurtling toward us. Yay, body! But if we want to take on the challenge of being our biggest, best, most powerful self in front of others, we’ve got to teach our body to mobilize other faculties entirely, and it’s less about biological imperatives and more about habits. Like, how we tend to think about ourselves in the spotlight, our relationship to our audience, our value to them, our patterns of behavior when we’ve got the floor.


How do you break a habit? I’m using “habit” to mean tendency you’re accustomed to that, like a drug, might offer comfort in the moment but is a crutch in the long run. The problem with habits is that most of them are formed unconsciously—and by others. Did anyone ever tell you, growing up, if you don’t have anything nice to say, don’t say anything at all? Did you get the message that anger is ugly? That keeping the peace is paramount? That it would behoove you to be smaller and quieter? Our parents, well-meaning as they may have been, our schooling and peers, the movies we watched and YouTubers we followed, the lessons we learned from rule-breakers about the consequences and rule-followers about the rewards, have all civilized us. Without knowing it and over decades, we’ve 
discovered ways to use our breath to choke, reroute, and manage our unseemly impulses so we remain proper members of society. But what makes us good members of society makes us crappy revolutionaries—or, if that feels too dramatic, it makes us crappy public speakers too.


Just as I am not interested in faulting you for using these crutches, neither am I interested in offering you new ones. Rather, breathwork is about finding something more true and more freeing than the habits we’ve acquired. When our habits whisper to us, 
You’re not the kind of person who …,
 we can whisper back, 
But what if?
 We tend to pick up habits when conditions dictate, and maybe, for you, the conditions have changed. Maybe you got this book because that panting, bear-fearing version of you isn’t cutting it anymore.


There’s a lot we can learn from our bodies when they’re calm. In fact, on a technical level, when we’re speaking in an entirely comfortable scenario we tend to take just the right amount of breath for the thought we’re expressing to ride the air on its way out. In essence, 
thought
 connects to 
breath
 connects to 
voice
. The internal process is beautiful: What we call “speech” begins with an urge to communicate, which renders on a brain scan as a simple impulse of the motor cortex, whether it’s a massive need to be heard or simply saying hi as you pass a stranger. An electrical current alights down the spine to the nerve endings associated with speech and breathing muscles, which is a 
lot
 of them. Then a shock of coordinated movements expands the rib cage, engages the massive muscle separating our upper and lower torso called the diaphragm, and pushes around our organs to create space for our lungs to expand, allowing the air to rush in and then rush back out just as 
smoothly—a little bit for a little thought, a lot for a long and winding one. A little for a casual remark, a lot for a shout.


In this platonic ideal of breathing for speech, air passes through the V-shaped vocal cords on its way out, vibrating them like a string. And this creates sound, though it’s still not out of our bodies yet. Those vibrations bounce around first, turning our bones into amplifiers, and the hollows between our bones into sound chambers where the vibrations build, multiplying and resonating—literally “re-sounding”—like an echo. Then finally, we use our lips, our teeth, our tongue, and the hard and soft parts of our mouth, to articulate those sounds into meaning as the waves find their way out through the shapes we make for them. That initial urge to communicate finds satisfaction when the sound waves land on someone else’s ears, or a whole lot of ears, and they hear and understand us.


Think of an occasion when you were on a roll, when you were retelling a juicy story or responding in wonder to a friend’s (“Oh my God, no 
way
!”). You probably actually pulled off this platonic ideal. When we’re truly present, the system functions magnificently. And those moments when we have nothing to prove are instructive: we breathe better when we’re feeling safe and loved—when that urge to communicate isn’t impeded by an opposing urge to hide.


The problem, of course, is the other times—when we get misunderstood, when we get talked over, dismissed, or when we second-guess our own thoughts in the middle of expressing them. Then, fight-or-flight instincts take over or old habits take over. Then, breathing becomes labored. We run out of air too soon or forget to breathe and find ourselves grasping for more. Our throat muscles tighten from adrenaline, trapping the sound and forcing the vocal cords to work overtime to com
pensate (notice how, in the platonic ideal of thought-to-breath-to-voice, 
throat
 was nothing but a passive participant?). The mythology of public spaces plays on us, rattling the link between mind and body, and suddenly our elegantly coordinated nerve endings and muscle groups, capable of concerto, resemble a bunch of five-year-olds in band practice.


If you consider yourself very put-together, perhaps you’ve found a habit to conceal the awkward struggle, even if you haven’t conquered it yet. My client Meg was raised in a Korean immigrant household in Los Angeles and is, she told me, driven by that familiar need to make her parents proud at all costs—a self-proclaimed classic perfectionist. She was aiming for a big promotion at her start-up, a very public-facing position. She had the right disposition and skill set for taking on her company’s problems, but her obsession with getting everything exactly right also made her a stilted speaker who wasn’t going to get the gig.


When I asked her a question about her goals, early in our session, she answered in jargon expressed with perfect poise. She spoke without pause, in big words and full paragraphs, but nothing quite added up. Even alone with just me, she wasn’t truly hearing the questions and searching herself for real answers, in real time. She didn’t allow herself the space to surprise herself. It was as though she thought taking real breaths or pausing to reflect would indicate weakness, or at least she had thought that when she was younger and the habit stuck. Like a singer wanting to hide an in-breath before delivering a line of music, Meg wanted to hide the effort at all costs. This approach did make her seem polished, but in a way that read as contrived. Which can accidentally make any of us come across as untrustworthy. It struck me that she seemed more 
like a portrait than a person, and I was reminded of marketing wizard Seth Godin’s warning, “Perfectionism is another form of hiding.”
4
 I have nothing against polish; it’s lovely to be well prepared and self-possessed, but do not mistake gripping self-policing for polish. The difference between the two comes down to breath, and the difference between whether or not you seem like a living, breathing human in the room comes down to breath too.


To seem like a human, you have to 
live in your body
. This fleshy situation doesn’t just carry around your head or join you for a Pilates class or get turned on at the thought of the couple from 
Outlander.
 You may have forgotten your body, or detached from it, or learned to hate it. And you may have done so for good reason: that major muscle separating the top and bottom half of your torso, the diaphragm, is responsible for a wild amount of angst. At the intersection of public-speaking fears and beauty standards, personal trauma, and making sure we come across as “likable” rather than the alternative is the damn diaphragm. It’s the shape of a dome and like all muscles, it can either hang out in resting position, rounded upward in this case, or it can contract and 
do
 something, and for this muscle, that means flatten down and let all hell break loose.


When the diaphragm is able to fully contract down, the movement draws valuable air into your lungs; as it completely relaxes, it pushes out oxygen-depleted stale air. But if you hold in your tummy throughout the day, you limit your diaphragm’s range of motion—breaths will be shallower, and weak exhalations will trap up to 30 percent of the leftover carbon dioxide in your lungs. Why would we do this to ourselves? The answer is, because there are real, practical benefits to holding your dia
phragm in place and tensed. For one, there’s a good chance no one will be drawn to looking at your belly area because there will be no movement there. For another, you won’t feel all your feelings—there’s a reason we associate deep body wisdom with the “gut.” When you take shallow breaths, you don’t dip down into that area at all, and you don’t have to hear its warnings. Instead, you might have a satisfying feeling of being in control. It might be what normal feels like, and there’s comfort in that. And finally, if your diaphragm stays tensed, your voice will likely come out a little soft, weak, or strained, or even higher-pitched or stereotypically feminine. In any case, you won’t seem threatening. British comedian Deborah Frances-White starts her popular 
Guilty Feminist
 podcast episodes off-loading a handful of blistering “I’m a feminist, but …” admissions. I’m a feminist, but … tensing your tummy is a pretty spectacular defense mechanism. It helps life run smoothly; it helps you not rock a single boat. It’s got its perks.


Here is the aforementioned hell that will break loose were you instead to contract your diaphragm on each cycle of breath so air has the opportunity to rush into your lungs: You will feel more of everything. You will be able to tap into your intuition, read the room, and pivot in the moment as new information comes in. A body that’s breathing well hears itself think. As a result, you will surprise yourself and your listeners. It might feel dangerous. Boats will rock. But your voice will come out fuller, with more resonance and color and expression, which means your audience will not only hear you better but 
see you
 better. Your voice will read as confident. You will feel powerful. You will literally be more powerful.


Of note: It’s terrifying for most of us to take a true breath 
because it requires the relaxation of our abdomens, and we’ve all grown up in suck-in culture. We can’t change the size of, say, our thighs just by breathing differently, but we can change the size of our middles … so we do. It’s hard to believe how much bravery is required to take up the amount of space that our bodies actually inhabit, when we’re being watched. Instead, most of us have a tendency to negotiate away our vocal power for a sense of perceived visual power. Or we’re so used to doing so, we’ve never stopped to ask ourselves if it’s a trade-off we’re willing to make.


A client of mine is a movie star in one of the biggest franchises of all time, and she told me that in acting school she could not figure out how to take a belly breath. When she finally did it, after all kinds of poking and prodding from her voice teacher, she sobbed and sobbed. She told me, “Who knows why—maybe it was finally facing the grief of self-sabotage?” That may be part of the process for you too. And it’s fair to wonder if it’s worth it, facing down habits that have in some ways protected you your whole life.


In fact, if the goal is to use your voice to get what you want, tensing your diaphragm and avoiding true breaths 
might work better
—in certain rooms, in certain relationships. We can all think of times it was more convenient to be smaller, to detach from uncomfortable feelings, to sound unthreatening, and to execute perfectly with no surprises. There are serious short-term gains to these habits. But have you noticed how many women give TED Talks wearing those form-fitting, underwear-line revealing, Spanx-requiring torture devices called sheath dresses? I perk up at the talks by women wearing anything looser. I’m not judging them based on their clothing choices; I just know there’s more of a chance that something 
real
 will 
happen on that stage—that they’ll surprise themselves and us simply by virtue of breathing more freely. I’m interested in you picking up new tools so something real will happen for you too. So you’ll switch out your actual or metaphorical sheath dress and tell off suck-in culture and take up space even if it’s a risk. So you get what you 
really
 want. I have a feeling that’s why you’re here: for the other rooms, the other relationships, the ones you want to have long-term. So you can grab the lapels and change everything. So you can become the new sound of power.


Like my friend Cathy. She sent me this text from the campaign trail: “Yo! I was told very nicely tonight that I either talk in my throat or squeak. Can you help me??” After years as an activist and inspired by the 2018 midterm elections (dubbed a “blue wave” because of the tsunami of newly elected Democrats, many of whom were women and people of color), Cathy felt the pull to do more than organize and march, so she announced her bid to run for United States Congress in 2020. Her district needed a change, and her background in healthcare primed her to understand her future constituents’ needs as well as to handle the inevitable slog of legislative bureaucracy she’d have to trudge through to get those needs met. Plus, she had just survived a serious skiing accident that left her feeling utterly fearless. She thought, When if not now? Who if not me? But the throat-talking and voice-squeaking didn’t care if she was the ideal candidate; they were going to take her down.


“Yup” is how I responded to her text. “Have you ever thought about your body when you’re speaking?” Twenty-four hours later we were facing each other, standing in ready position—like we were about to engage in the world’s fiercest 
one-on-one volleyball match. With our eyes glued on each other, she followed my lead as I held my belly and jiggled it, encouraging my guts to let themselves release into my hands as I breathed in through my nose and out through my mouth. She started laughing.


“It’s like stretching before a run. Of course you have to stretch before speaking in public!”


Indeed, whether we’re pitching ourselves to our community or pitching our idea to an inscrutable room, the trick is to expand. To take up space. Stretching reminds our body of its actual size and warms it up so that that size feels normal.


“Why had this never occurred to me?” she asked.


I shrugged and said, “The patriarchy?”


Look, it’s been quite convenient for women to be disconnected from the power of their own breath for millennia. I mean, not convenient for 
us,
 but convenient for 
somebody
. Anyone who doesn’t breathe deeply enough won’t be able to tap into all the resources at their disposal—from a strong voice to a strong sense of what is not fair and can no longer be tolerated.


At this moment we were trying to connect what Cathy knew in her head—that she was ready to lead—with a body that wasn’t used to investing in the energy leadership takes. She had decided she was fearless, but her body had not been informed. 
Her breathing was stuck in habits her ambition had outgrown.
 So, we bounced on our knees, chins down, sighing out and adding just a touch of sound—a “huuuuh”—letting the sound shake us as we manually moved our tummies, noticing ever so gently how unusual it feels to let our middles go.


We can argue intellectually with ourselves for a freer body, or we can just shimmy it out. There are benefits to each ap
proach, but one is heavy, and one is light. One takes a lifetime, the other gets results within the hour. For me, the tight spots are always my digestive tract, between my shoulder blades, and under my armpits. For all of us, it’s the places we pull in out of fear, out of habit.


I want you to practice expanding, with a little touch of silly if you can swing it. I think of this warm-up in terms of four shapes. Try them all. Ultimately if you want to use this to prepare yourself for a big day or for every day, pick and choose what’s right for your body—but dare yourself to figure out what 
right
 really means.


The whole thing can be done in one minute flat, or in half an hour if you add some calming music and turn it into a meditation. Or put on your favorite dance music and let yourself get down. You have permission to be flirty and mischievous. You certainly have permission to get winded: when you do aerobic activity your body’s own wisdom kicks in. In his 1862 treatise “Walking,” Henry David Thoreau wrote that “that primal act of mobility connects us with our essential wildness, that spring of spiritual vitality methodically dried up by our sedentary civilization.”
5
 When we move, we remember ourselves. We remember our wildness.


SHAPE 1: BIG-DECISION BREATHING


Lying on your back on the floor with your knees up toward the ceiling, encourage your lower back to sink into the floor. Place one hand on your stomach, one hand on your heart. Empty out your lungs and wait for the urge to breathe. As that urge hits, feel your stomach balloon and float up—try not to force it in any way—and rather than holding at the top, ride the cycle of 
breath. All the way in, all the way out. And when you’re empty again, hold till you feel a new urge. Think about ocean waves, foaming up to your toes on the beach and then sliding back out to sea.


The goal here is to discover your own natural rhythm of diaphragmatic breathing or what I’ve been calling “breathing well.” When we take this kind of breath, and we allow our diaphragm to activate and flatten, it pushes down into the abdomen, temporarily rearranging those organs and creating an air-pressure imbalance like a vacuum, which the lungs then hasten to resolve by filling up with enough oxygen to balance out again. That new rush of oxygen gives our whole system a boost.


Yogis call this full breath 
prana,
 which literally means life force in Sanskrit, or “a universal energy, which flows in currents in and around the body,” according to the Oxford English Dictionary. It’d be hard to sound more woo-woo than that, but also, scientists agree that this kind of breathing changes lives.


A healthy dose of oxygen is crucial to defend our immune system and balance our nervous system. (Turns out it’s physically impossible to take deep, restorative breaths and also panic.) And good breathing changes the way our brain processes information: a breathing practice like this one can serve as a non-pharma intervention to reduce patterns of anxiety, depression, and even professional burnout, according to various studies. Its opposite—habitually taking in not quite enough air—stresses the heart and is associated with weight gain, mood swings, fitful sleep, and shoddy executive function. You know what this means? It means that how we process the world, how we figure out what matters to us, and then how we choose to go after it, all comes down to the kind of breath we 
take in. It sounds nuts. But here we are, with the science to back it up. So if you need to make a big decision, lie on your back with your knees up.


SHAPE 2: BREATHING TO UNSTICK


Stand with your arms up. Grabbing your left wrist, bend to the right as much as you can and breathe all the way out with your mouth, like you’re blowing out a billion birthday candles. Wait for that urge to breathe, and then, let it rush in through your nose, feeling your rib cage along your left side expand. Continue to pull your wrist and try to become as elongated as you can along that left side from your ankle to your wrist. Do this one more time on that side, and then switch sides.


Now shift your focus to that impulse to take in air after you’ve emptied out. As you grab your wrists once more on each side, breathe in through your nose and pretend that you’re smelling the greatest smell in the world. Maybe your favorite flower, the cologne your crush wore in high school, a new baby, the sea. Let it affect you.


The goal with this exercise is to unstick your ribs. The image of a rib cage might evoke a birdcage, with bars that don’t move, and it’s true that the bones themselves don’t bend, but the spaces between your ribs 
can
 expand. However, if you’re uncomfortable, feeling resistance, trying to make it through a difficult moment, or dealing with longer-term emotional trauma, your rib cage can lose mobility, get stiff or frozen, and feel like a prison. It’s self-protection. But it makes breathing harder, which ends up hurting you even more in the long run. This exercise offers some relief, even if the relief is accompanied by more complicated emotions as they release out of your body. 
When you do this exercise, if you’re feeling safe, let yourself feel things and just continue breathing.


SHAPE 3: EASY BREATHING


Standing on your feet, bend at the waist and hang down, encouraging your head to feel heavy. Allow your arms to hang loose and your knees to bend comfortably. Breathe in through your nose, out through your mouth, and as you breathe in notice if you can feel your ribs expand, or your lower back. For me it even feels like my butt expands in this position. Try to breathe from as low as possible for the rest of this exercise. Shake and nod your head, gently bounce your knees and sigh out, adding some voice so you’re humming. Over multiple breath cycles, slowly roll up. Make eye contact with something across the room and open your mouth so the hum turns into a “maaaaaa.” Shimmy a bit to make sure you’re not getting stuck. Relax the back of your neck.


Breathing again, say “my” to that point across the room. Then, on the next breath, “My name is ____.” Trill your lips to release more tension. “Bruhmmmm ma, ma, ma.” With your hands, massage your jaw at the joint, stick out your tongue and count to ten with your tongue all the way out of your mouth (if you’re doing it right, the counting will be pretty unintelligible). Allow yourself to play. Now try gasping, like you just had the best idea ever, and let it out on a “huh!” Did you breathe from as low as possible? Try it again.


The goal with this exercise is to connect breath to speech. Although there are hundreds of theories about how exactly humans began using language, according to Bill Bryson in 
The Mother Tongue: English and How It Got That Way,
 almost all 
of them are based on the premise that early speech entailed the sort of spontaneous utterances we still make today when we’re surprised by pain, joy, or alarm.
6
 That intake of breath and release with sound is speech’s purest form. It’s childlike, genuine, maybe entirely uninhibited. Catch yourself the next time something surprises you—even if it’s just a new thought you have in the shower—and notice what happens with your breath. These exercises help you get back that simple relationship to your impulses, even when the pressure’s on.


SHAPE 4: HIGH-STAKES BREATHING


For most people it feels incredibly vulnerable to jiggle your belly with your hands, but try it and see. Start by standing with a strong base, feet shoulder-width apart, knees and waist lightly bent, heart forward, eyes focused. Then send some love to your middle through your hands, breathing in and out through your mouth, sighing out on a breathy “huuuuuh.”


Experiment in this position with what feels powerful to you. Try beating your chest. Add sound (“uuuuh”) and hear it jostle around as you pound. Raise your hands like a V for victory and let them fall while shimmying and sighing out on sound, high pitch to low. Do what makes you feel expansive. Try the Amy Cuddy power pose (hands on hips) and the Rapinoe (hands extended out like you’re holding the world and it’s yours). While you’re there in the Rapinoe, imagine your in-breath filling all the way to your middle fingers and shooting out from there. Try another “My name is _____.” Not too loud, just fill the room you’re in. Drop your arms and try again. Try saying “I need your help.” Like you’re talking to a car mechanic who’s ignoring you. Try again, this time like you’re talking to a boss. 
(Are you still breathing? From as low as you can?) And one more time, like you’re inspiring your community to join you. Say it like it’s coming at the end of a long speech and you 
know
 they’re about to cheer after you say it. Do you recognize your own voice? Breathe in and out one more time, listening to them cheer in your head. And if you’ve only been reading these exercises up until now, stop and actually try this one.


The goal here is to play with how you breathe when you’ve got something to say and the stakes are high. Yoga and meditation and running use different breath patterns than speaking does; for each of those activities, the point is a kind of consistency within a closed system. Breath fuels the activity, but the activity’s goal is internal and all we need already exists inside of us. For speaking, the point is to convey something from inside of us out, to throw the system wide open. And the goal of speech, more often than not, is to get something we need from someone else. That’s scary because we’re asking for help—even if it’s just to ring us up for a latte, or for our kid to get dressed because we’re running late, or to fix our car, or to appreciate us. It’s scary because we might not get it; 
how
 we ask will affect the outcome and on some level we know it. The first kind of breathing is called vegetative breathing; the second is breathing for 
speech
.


This final shape will teach you what it feels like to support yourself while you communicate, with incrementally harder asks so you can experience new levels of breath support. Cathy’s body wasn’t used to investing in the energy it takes to activate the diaphragm; this is your chance to experiment with how much energy 
is
 required to do just that. Adapt the scenarios to what feels relevant for you. Maybe you practice belly breathing and connect it to the first line of a tough conversa
tion you know you need to have. Or you connect it to your response to the “What do you do?” question, if you tend to get flustered when asked. Or to the first few lines of Vice President Harris’s speech. Feel your diaphragm setting you up for success. Feel yourself supporting yourself.


You know, only a few generations ago, women were trespassers the moment they stepped outside their homes. In 1900, unescorted women in the biggest cities in the United States were not legally allowed into men’s domain—or what we might call today “the public”—and if you weren’t middle-class or white, it was even more recently. Social mores began to shift in part thanks to the advent of department stores and their promise of a blended public/private sphere—a well-documented calculation to better woo women into spending more of their household’s money.
7
 Capitalism for the win. But once out of the house, it’s not like women were suddenly in a position to stop shopping and hop on a soapbox, drop their purchases and hold the floor, speaking freely to a mixed-gender crowd.


And how about now?


“Gaining a Public Voice” is Dr. Judith Mattson Bean’s twenty-first-century exploration of the cultural attitudes toward women in public during the nineteenth century in the United States. It reads as oddly familiar today. Women were taught to be, as Dr. Bean sums it up, “silent, self-effacing, and publicly invisible.”
8
 Even prominent women intellectuals of the day, like Harriet Beecher Stowe’s sister Catharine Beecher, argued (somewhat ironically) that women speaking in public on their own convictions should not be trusted—that they do so at “the promptings of ambition, or the thirst for power.”
9
 It’s hard to imagine audience members willing to give women speakers 
authority in that context, let alone women giving it to themselves. It’s also hard not to hear in Catharine Beecher’s remark modern headlines that accompanied Vice President Kamala Harris’s run for office.


Our great-grandmothers were taught to downplay accomplishment and ambition; our grandmothers were taught by their mothers to divert attention away from their bodies, and away from their convictions as well. For women, publicly invisible is publicly acceptable and has been for millennia. Publicly absent is best of all, in fact. A hundred years ago, unaccompanied women walking down a city street in broad daylight (to say nothing of after nightfall) were assumed to be either domestic workers rushing from one house of employ to another, or prostitutes—literally called “public women.” But even now, if you’re assaulted in public one of the first questions is likely to be “Why were you walking alone?” So, if you start to shake at the thought of voicing your pitch in a meeting, if something inside you urges you to take up as little space as possible, to hold your breath in a bid to be neither seen nor heard, there’s, shall we say, precedent.


Historically, the act of speaking in public has even been seen as incompatible with being a woman. According to actual medical specialists writing in the nineteenth century, women were at real risk of being “rendered sterile through strenuous intellectual efforts such as oratory, ‘unsexing’ themselves literally as well as figuratively,” writes Dr. Bean. An influential letter crafted by religious leaders in the 1830s warned that women who attempted public speaking would “not only cease to bear fruit, but fall in shame and dishonor in the dust.”
10
 Don’t even try to speak up, ladies; your uteruses will shrivel up and also you might die.


“Solid things come and go, but stories endure,”
11
 writes Elizabeth Lesser in her 2020 book, 
Cassandra Speaks
. As deranged as those voices from a few hundred years ago sound, they were the logical extension of stories told for centuries about what power looks and sounds like. Western culture’s origin tales from Adam and Eve onward tend to paint women as “erotically seductive yet emotionally fickle, in need of protection yet dangerous, all at the same time,” Lesser says. “Who could trust such a creature?” And though we can easily scoff at this sentiment today, something lingers.


According to Dr. Mary Beard, some of the oldest stories in the Western world, 
The Odyssey
 and the Greek and Roman myths, still live in us and still govern our sensibilities today. As Dr. Maria Tatar, author of 
The Heroine with 1001 Faces,
 put it, “Our foundational narratives (myths, biblical stories, epics, and fairy tales) are used not just to educate but also to indoctrinate.”
12
 And none of us is entirely immune. Consider when we announce we don’t like the sound of a woman’s voice, or when we mistrust a woman seeking a leadership position. Consider when we question our own voice’s validity. The lessons we’ve inherited from those old texts sway our modern tastes about “what counts as good oratory or bad, persuasive or not, and whose speech is to be given space to be heard,” Beard writes in 
Women & Power.
 “Public speech was a—if not 
the
—defining attribute of maleness,” so a woman using her voice in public was “by definition not a woman.”


It’s quite an inheritance: women who raise their voices in public are either trying to be a man (the archetype is Androgyne in Greek mythology, a male-female creature), or trying to get attention they’re not entitled to, as an exhibitionist or temptress (a siren in Greek mythology, a dangerous woman-
like creature with a beautiful voice who lures men to their deaths). They are either unsexed or oversexed—lacking the body parts that make us women, or all boobs and vaginas. In the stories of Ovid’s 
Metamorphoses,
 women who spoke up were turned into cows, or plants, or could only echo others, or had their tongues ripped out. The options! And though we can scoff at this barbarism, too, still something lingers.


Despite it all, there have been fervent iconoclasts who bucked the system, and we are their descendants as well. But they, including Dr. Beard herself, still get rape threats just like the women in those classic myths, only now it’s over Twitter. Old stigmas die hard. The shame around public speaking has changed shape, and perhaps size, with every generation, but it’s still there, when we open our mouths to speak before a public still deciding if it wants to give us authority. It feels risky, and it is.


And that’s why it’s hard to breathe deeply. To do so is to fight through shame and impropriety, to bring our whole selves into the room despite the risks, and not as someone who is unsexed (acting like a stereotypical man) or oversexed (performing some parody of femininity). And not by going invisible or downplaying our convictions. To take a deep breath and speak is to reject the archetypes we didn’t forge to begin with and that don’t fit us now. If we breathe deeply and let ourselves be seen and heard, if we render ourselves truly knowable, we are committing a profound act of social change. We are breaking from tradition (maybe even our own family’s tradition), changing history, being a radical and a revolutionary—when honestly, all we wanted to do was just fucking say a thing we were thinking.


Cathy wrote me from the campaign trail to report, “I was in 
the congressional dining room closet making the face noises so I would have my full vocal range.” At every stop she dutifully found discreet spots to do her breath warm-up, shimmy around a bit, gather her bravery, and tell herself she deserved to take up space. And she won her primary. In fact, her opponent decided to drop out because she so outraised him in campaign funds. But in November 2020, she lost her bid for Congress anyway; her district was too red to flip in a single cycle, and her ground campaign too impeded by the pandemic. She changed the story, though. And she inspired thousands up and down her district—who are now imploring her to run again. She might, but she needs a moment to breathe.


Ultimately, this is about daring. With breath, with belief, with our arms around each other and our hands resting on each other’s backs. We must do this work, each of us, for ourselves, but we must not mistake that for doing it alone. The first step in opening a door into any space not made for us is to take a deep breath and to will ourselves to hear in the silence the collective breath of millions of others, daring us on.

















2


Size




Nature calls us to expand. The fear is learned.


—TANYA O. WILLIAMS
, social-justice educator and coach
1




In the documentary 
Knock Down the House,
 Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez sits on a faux-leather couch in her tiny apartment in the Bronx, giving herself a pep talk before a big debate. She gestures wide, a little sheepishly, repeating to herself, “I need to take up space.”
2
 She had an inkling her opponent was about to try to make her feel small, young, and inexperienced. She knew she might accidentally start to shrink if she didn’t prepare herself, mentally and physically.


Fifty-nine million people have watched Dr. Amy Cuddy’s TED Talk on the power of posing in order to make our bodies feel big.
3
 Soccer star Megan Rapinoe’s outstretched arms, fired up through the fingertips, have inspired women around the world to stand in their lives like they actually own the real estate. 
The Body Is Not an Apology
 author and activist Sonya Renee Taylor’s book features an unforgettable cover image: her naked body in confident repose, shimmering and strewn with flowers.
4
 All three of these powerhouse women have gone all in on this wager: when our bodies boldly take up space, our 
thoughts do, too, and then our lives have the chance to expand to the size they deserve to be.


By now, the prompt to 
take up space
 and 
play big
 thrums through our modern understanding of what it is to be a strong woman: notice where we shrink, try not to. It’s the patter of our lives, whether we’re joking about laying off the exclamation points in emails or deciding if it’s worth it to quit our job or get another degree or leave that relationship. We are constantly debating with ourselves how big our lives actually deserve to be. We’re all goddamn cheetahs, but sometimes our growl eludes us. Then we feel like imposters or frauds; we feel annoyed at the cliché but stuck with it anyway. I’ve had sweaty hikes in the Hollywood Hills and teary sessions across my desk, wending deliberations with my most competent friends, with CEOs and movie stars and fiery activists and my own mentors, all of us trying to navigate the intricacies of expanding in the moments that matter, all of us again and again noticing where we shrink and trying not to.


I sat in awe watching the first female president of an Ivy League school, a decorated biologist named Shirley Tilghman who had raised billions of dollars for Princeton University, as she grappled with her own answer. “When did you feel like you were 
enough
?” the interviewer asked, veering off-script as the session was wrapping up. In front of three thousand eager women, the president’s mouth opened and closed, her face revealing wave after wave of discarded half-answers, none of them true enough to speak aloud. She was silent. Finally, she nodded gently, letting out a soft chuckle, baring herself to us. And an understanding settled over the crowd—we looked around, catching one another’s eye, sharing knowing smiles. Clearly, we’re all in this crap together.


And the attacks come from within and without. These attacks—microaggressions we face individually as well as full-scale cultural biases written into our laws and retold in our stories and embedded into our psyches—are what pressure us to play small. It’s not just some pathology of our own making; the fear is learned. As Ruchika Tulshyan and Jodi-Ann Burey wrote in the 
Harvard Business Review,
 “Imposter syndrome directs our view toward fixing women at work instead of fixing the places where women work.”
5
 The responsibility to change the system lies with the power players who write pretty diversity statements but don’t know the first thing about listening to diverse voices with open ears.


But we can’t wait for them to figure it out. So we practice our power poses and consider the connection between taking up physical space and the mindset that preempts it, or that follows (it flows in both directions). We work on doing whatever we can to gain more power so that eventually, maybe even soon, we’re in charge of those same workplaces.


There’s a vocal equivalent to taking up space unapologetically as well—and it will help in this endeavor. To speak with the full wingspan of your voice requires some technical know-how as well as a certain flex of the permission muscle. But when you do it, you’re not just more likely to speak up—you will affect the actual conveyance of your speech. 
You will sound different.
 And there’s a chance you’ll actually get heard.


Another phrase that often accompanies 
take up space
 is 
speak up
. This, of course, is my jam, but I want to get very specific here. When you’re gathering your courage to take a breath and actually speak up in a tough moment, the choice can feel binary: to speak or not to speak? You may think, Will I get it to
gether to call that guy out, or will I let it pass? Will I share my fresh and weird idea or abandon it? Will I advance to the podium when my name is called or conveniently get trapped in a bathroom stall? But once you choose to say the damn thing, the story’s just begun.


How we speak 
through
 each utterance is as important, if not more so, than whether we begin. This is about taking responsibility all the way till we’re done speaking. The alternative sounds like “I believe in something to my core … 
but, like, maybe not, what do you think
?” The back half of our offerings is where things get interesting, because in the project of taking up space with our speech, the proof is in the ending. That’s where we reveal, usually unintentionally, whether we’ve come to play. In a way, the first chapter of this book was already about size—what is required of our bodies when we’re preparing to speak to a lot of people or just one important one, and the amount of breath we need to pull it off. Good breath, well taken, is a huge accomplishment. But when our words hit air, new trials await. I wrote of letting your body expand into the actual space it inhabits, with breath, even when you’re being watched; here I want you to consider that your speech works the same way.


First of all, it helps to think of a person talking as not just opening and closing their mouth and emitting sounds but 
doing something
 to their listeners. Speech turns thought into action. If you ask a new colleague, “Do you want to grab lunch sometime?” you may never actually go for that lunch, but it doesn’t mean the offer has no value; it’s made them feel welcome, it’s made you feel that you’re the welcoming type, it’s begun a relationship. Linguists call even the most basic communication 
“making social moves” or performing “speech acts.” And though speech acts usually involve words, they’re not entirely about them: 
how
 you asked your colleague to lunch will define the exchange and maybe even the entire relationship moving forward. Were there notes of forced cheerfulness in your voice? Flirtation? An honest enthusiasm that became somehow muted by the end to cover that you secretly fear you’re not that cool and they’ll probably turn you down? Words emerge from inside us alongside a slew of other valuable intel in the form of pitch, volume, tone, and tempo—the music and rhythm of us in that moment, with all our habits and all our hopes. And as listeners, we pick up on all of it; we’ve had millennia to practice.


In the 1970s, a zoologist named Eugene Morton at the Smithsonian Institution studied the vocalizations of more than fifty bird and mammal species to chart their low growls and high squeaks, and the range of options between those two extremes.
6
 What he found connects with the endless possibilities embedded in our “Do you want to grab lunch sometime?”: the amount and range of sounds that animals make along that spectrum is directly related to how social those species are.


As journalist John Colapinto explains in his book 
This Is the Voice,
 “Those animals who live in larger cooperative groups, with more complex social interactions, produce and process signals with more points—more sounds—along the emotional spectrum.”
7
 Lizards, who will actually eat their own young if the babes don’t scamper away fast enough, don’t have the brain capacity for emotional attachments and cannot make a sound. We humans are the most socially complex species there is, and we’ve got the vocal options to prove it. We make a tiny, subtle shift in intonation and we’re offering concern but with a tinge 
of jealousy, or wistfulness with gratitude, or fury with an eye roll because we’re mad that we’re mad.


But we can also confuse people, and ourselves, with the smorgasbord of vocal options at our disposal. Because, to further complicate matters, we don’t just have options based on thousands of years of evolution, we also have shadings and nuance we sprinkle in based on modern trends we’ve picked up from our friends or idols. And sometimes those options turn into habits that run counter to our actual intentions. In other words, sometimes our speech acts are at cross-purposes with our speech.


Enter vocal fry and upspeak. Women around the world get ridiculed for sounding like bacon sizzling in a pan (vocal fry), or for pitching up at the end of statements (upspeak), as though we’re asking a question when we’re not, as well as using words like “like” and “I mean” when they’re not strictly necessary. We get pulled aside by charitable mentors, both men and women, who tell us these habits will undermine us and we should stop—like it’s a rite of passage to put away childish things. A friend in the audience of a workshop I ran overheard two older women whispering and caught one asking the other on the way out the door, “Do you think Samara used ‘like’ so much 
on purpose
?” My knee-jerk reaction upon hearing this was mortification; my next reaction a little quiet pride. I know the story.


For decades now, think piece after think piece has argued how these “self-imposed speech impediments” render Millennial women and younger generations incapable of sounding professional, let alone like a boss. Headlines from 
The Atlantic
 to 
The Guardian
 have proclaimed “Vocal Fry May Hurt Women’s Job Prospects” and “Young Women, Give Up the Vocal 
Fry and Reclaim Your Strong Female Voice.”
8
 Serious articles on gendered language are rife with pronouncements like “the use of uptalk is one of the most common elements undermining women’s credibility,”
9
 since it’s associated with hesitancy and uncertainty. Studies claim that these features of contemporary speech, sometimes even called “mallspeak,”
10
 have “taken on a negative, feminine connotation imbued with immaturity and even idiocy.”
11
 The story is that we ladies have inherited the delicate instrument that is our vocal apparatus, fine-tuned over hundreds of thousands of years, and are bashing it against the stage like wannabe rock stars forgetting people came to hear music.


I’d like to throw a finger at all this rhetoric and tell you not to listen to curmudgeons who resent that they’ve grown old and irrelevant 
and sound like it,
 but it’s not so simple. There is, after all, a lot of data to support the claims that upon hearing vocal fry and upspeak, gatekeepers tend to hold that gate shut. In one such study from 2014, funded by Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business, the analysts concluded that “in a large national sample of American adults we find that vocal fry is interpreted negatively. Relative to a normal speaking voice, young adult female voices exhibiting vocal fry are perceived as less competent, less educated, less trustworthy, less attractive, and less hirable.”
12
 If you want to get hired, this data matters, even if it’s based on vocal prejudice.


Perhaps you didn’t get a job you went for because someone decided you sounded too young, or you weren’t chosen to represent the company at that conference because “there’s just something about your voice” that rubs your boss the wrong way. Or maybe it rubs 
you
 the wrong way, so you demurred. I’ve heard these comments and similar from my clients. Who 
among us has not chosen at one time or another to turn off a podcast with a female host because her voice was too distracting? 
I have.
 If we’re talking about giving ourselves permission, inviting ourselves wholeheartedly into rooms of power, what do we do with all this evidence? Don’t let the bastards grind you down but also, according to science and even our own biases, speaking like you actually speak will hold you back. So good luck.


Too many conversations around women’s voices pick a side and stop there. Police them! Let them be! But this is a false binary too. We do not have only one way we speak, and not even only one 
authentic
 way we speak. We don’t take up some consistent but arbitrary amount of space when we talk, and no matter what our habits have been in the past, they don’t define our next breath or our next. Consider the variety of social acts you negotiate every day. How do you sound when you’re talking to your grandmother, or to a lawyer? How about someone who’s ignoring you, or someone who’s in love with you? Think about how you sound when you feel the least sure of yourself—and the most. Who is that latter version of you? The one who feels free. Now really picture her: How much space is she taking up, with her body and her voice? How does she move through a room? How does she sound? What would it take to bring 
her
 into more rooms with you?


The night of November 2, 2020, Glennon Doyle and Oprah Winfrey hopped onto an Instagram Live to discuss coping with the collective anxiety surrounding the U.S. presidential election. Here were two of the most powerful women in the world, both celebrated for their wisdom and leadership, both a fair bit older than your standard Millennial, and both extremely public about their respective histories of discomfort living in their 
skin and their relative peace at present. Here were two women showing up, with authority and heart, and easing the souls of thousands and thousands of viewers. And here were two women using vocal fry and upspeak off and on throughout the whole thing.


About a minute into the recording, talking about the impulse to anxiety-clean her house, Glennon says, “It’s like, a more hopeful version of you starts? And then you get halfway through and … [fried] oooh.”
13
 And Oprah picks up in all fry: “I’m not doing this todayyyyy. I knooooow.” Needless to say, they were effective anyway. If their goal was to offer robust but tender support and a true sense of community in a time of need, they did it.


Clearly, the story of women and vocal habits is more complex than simply excising vocal fry or upspeak or “like” from how you talk in order to be taken seriously. And it’s more complicated than simply listening to this speech coach or that one, this mentor or that one. And yes, perhaps Oprah and Glennon earned the right to speak however they want, but there’s more to learn from them than just pay your dues. What’s going on vocally with the two of them, and with all of us, has a hell of a lot more to do with permission and less to do with speech. In the video, they are inhabiting—truly living in—the moments that they choose to speak up, and 
speaking up at the size that works best for those moments
. You can get there too. Glennon and Oprah use vocal fry and upspeak, whether they think of it this way or not, as tools to serve their purposes. And not when they don’t. This strategy is also yours for the taking.


Fun fact: when we speak in English, we tend to “front-load” our utterances. We start out with a big burst of energy as we 
cross the threshold from not speaking to speaking. It’s when we have the most breath at the ready and perhaps the most nerve because of all that built-up anticipation, like a runner at the starting line, raring to go. It’s natural to then expend that energy as we speak.


But if we’re uncomfortable speaking for any reason at all, the effects of front-loading become even more dramatic. As we start saying words, the racetrack bends unexpectedly and perhaps we flag: we see the room, the unreadable or hostile expressions, and we may begin to question our right to the space and time we’re trying to inhabit. We might start thinking, Maybe my idea isn’t so good after all. I should have thought it through more. I look dumb. I definitely don’t sound like that other person who spoke with all that confidence. He looked and sounded the part. What am I doing? Who do I think I am?


That big burst of energy we had at the top dissipates, and we sound less and less bold by the end of our statement, resulting in all kinds of “never mind, I take it back” energy—also known as vocal fry and upspeak (or uptalk, or, if you want to get really technical about it, a high-rise terminal pitch). Since most of the JFK-esque voice standards I described in the Introduction fly below the radar, I’m not surprised that some clients come to me sure that vocal fry and upspeak are ruining their lives, while others have never heard the terms at all. So, here’s the nitty-gritty. Vocal fry is the creaky sound speakers produce, often in the second half of a spoken phrase. (Try saying “I mean …” sardonically, dragging the phrase out as though no more needs to be said, and you’ll probably hear it in your own voice.) It’s defined as “a form of phonation [that just means sound production], characterized by a distinct laryngeal vibratory pattern”
14
 in the vocal cords, basically slow vibrations 
that produce a glottal effect reminiscent of bacon frying. It happens to most of us when we’re tired and not energizing our words with enough breath, or if we’re hoarse from talking too much at the end of a long day. But it happens also when we’re not tired at all, for all kinds of juicy reasons I’ll get to. Examples of it are everywhere, but our modern pop-culture paragon of vocal fry is Kim Kardashian and those who try to keep up with her. And lest you think this is easy fodder for stereotyping, remember: Oprah. Plus me. And probably you.


In case you’re wondering, men have picked up the habit as well: Ira Glass copped to using vocal fry regularly in a famous 
This American Life
 episode called “Freedom Fries,” where he responded to all the complaints he’d received about the voices of the young female reporters on his show by pointing out that no one complained about 
his
 voice. Indeed, it’s an everyone trend, but women are the ones who are maligned for it.


A Google search for the term “vocal fry” turns up hundreds of those think pieces aimed at women, alleging to save us from professional suicide; there are no equivalent articles for men, and often we don’t even notice when men do it. There’s an amazing video you can look up online that features an associate professor from Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business discussing how that 2014 study of theirs found that vocal fry in women is correlated with the perception of a lower sense of authority.
15
 But the researcher in question, a mid-forties Tom Cruise type whose head is center screen for most of the video, 
speaks with vocal fry at the end of almost every one of his statements
. It simply must not have occurred to a single person involved in making this vocal-fry-shaming project to even listen for it.


Upspeak is a cousin of vocal fry, and you can think of them 
as two manifestations of the same impulse, the impulse to shrink—to “never mind” at the end of your statements. Upspeak involves inserting a questioning pitch into a non-question, so the end of the thought swoops up, regardless of the content—even, say, telling someone what your name is? Classic caricatures of this vocal roller coaster include Alicia Silverstone in the 1995 film 
Clueless
 and Kristen Wiig in the 
Saturday Night Live
 skit “The Californians,” but really, it’s everywhere. A friend texted me the audio clip of an NPR correspondent saying, “Biden ran on the most progressive climate agenda in U.S. history? And won on it? So, it’s incumbent on him to take that seriously?” I listened over and over, rapt.


No one agrees exactly on the origin of upspeak, but the concept may have entered the cultural consciousness when composer Frank Zappa released his 1982 single “Valley Girl,” which featured recordings of his fourteen-year-old daughter speaking phrases associated with her young, white, upper-class peer group in Southern California. But now upspeak has become dissociated from this particular demographic; it’s on the Internet and the news, it’s coming out of most of our mouths no matter where in the English-speaking world we live, it’s coming out of our daughters’ (and sons’) mouths as young as three years old.


And then there’s “hedging,” a linguistic catchall term for everything that might be construed as a “filler” word, from “um” and “uh” to frequent use of the word “like” to softening terms we might throw into a pronouncement, such as, “I mean, like, maybe you should just talk to him about your, you know, concerns or whatever.” It’s tough to find anyone who doesn’t harbor secret fears that they’re guilty of hedging too much and undermining their credibility. The common assumption is that 
direct speech is strong, and that strength is the goal. Why ruin a perfectly good straight shot with frivolous detours and pit stops?


Finally, there’s a habit that resides outside specific vocal tendencies but that undergirds the whole lot of these trends—and it’s that women apologize. A lot. We can probably each point to examples of excessive apologies coming out of our own mouths or the mouths of women we know. I have a friend named Mandy who’s a community organizer and activist. She recently started a meeting I attended by apologizing, for literally nothing. She hadn’t begun the meeting late. She wasn’t ill prepared. She had hurt no one; far from it, she was helping all of us. But “Sorry, hi, everyone!” popped out of her mouth as smoothly as “welcome” might have. It reminded me of when she won a coveted spot on a state committee. Because it had taken a few days to certify the results, her big announcement began with “Sorry, I have been slow to let you know the outcome of Tuesday’s election!” I cringed.


But because I want to be honest with the fraught topic of how women speak up, and not default to easy answers that are useless in our real lives, I’m going to be obscenely evenhanded about the benefits and drawbacks of these trends. If you’re hoping for a guide on what to do and what to avoid, you won’t find it here. Instead, I want you to know your options, and I want you to know what they do to your listeners. Then it’s up to you to give yourself the permission to play and the grace to get it wrong and recover. I want you to think about who you’re trying to connect with and 
what will work with them.
 I also want you to consider what about your voice brings you joy and, above all, to sound like the version of yourself that’s more joyful. We shrink and expand in relation to one another, all 
day, every day. It’s painful and heartbreaking and beautiful, the way we accommodate others and sometimes, thankfully, ourselves.


Here’s an example of what I mean, if you worry you apologize too much. I remember nodding vigorously as I sat on set reading a 2019 
New York Times
 piece by author Ruth Whippman, highlighting nearly all of it on my phone. She suggests, “Surely, many of our most pressing social and political problems—from #MeToo to campus rape, school shootings to President Trump’s Twitter posturing—are caused not by a lack of assertiveness in women but by an over-assertiveness among men.”
16
 She quotes a famous 2010 study that concluded that women say they’re sorry more often than men because we have a “lower threshold for what constitutes offensive behavior,” and wonders why this is framed as a female deficiency. Why should fostering a “high threshold for offensive behavior” be anyone’s goal? She warns us against assuming traditional masculine standards:




Rarely in the course of this anti-apologizing crusade do we ever stop to consider the social and moral value of apologies and the cost of obliterating them from our interactions. Apologizing is a highly symbolic and socially efficient way to take responsibility for our actions, to right a wrong and clear space for another person’s feelings. It’s a routine means of injecting self-examination and moral reflection into daily life.




Hallelujah. My kid’s school borrows the language of psychotherapy and teaches its students about social repairs—don’t just say the word “sorry” if you’ve messed up but also take re
sponsibility for the harm you may have caused and articulate what you’ll do in the future so it doesn’t happen again. It’s very Ruth Whippman of them. Clearly, telling women or anyone to stop apologizing whole-hog is foolish; our society benefits from righting wrongs and repairing rends.


But this is where the work begins: each of us has to take a hard look at our own habits. Is your impulse to apologize born of a hurt, no matter how minor, you wish to heal? An imbalance you’d like to even out? Or is it, perhaps, more generic than that? Is it a reflexive reaction that doesn’t actually fit the occasion? Because if, like my friend Mandy, nothing specific in front of you requires repair, then you will sound like you’re apologizing for taking up time and space—and inadvertently offering to repair your very existence. It’s hard to shrink any further than that.


As we dig into the choices we each have to use vocal fry and upspeak and hedging and apology, bear this in mind: they 
are
 choices, and practical ones at that. They may be just the right tool for the job. But they may not, and we must wield them with care because there’s one thing these habits all have in common: they keep the peace. They tell the powers that be that we know our place. And especially as we expand into newer, more powerful places, these linguistic curlicues act as an homage to the size we were before, back when we weren’t making claims on time and space that used to belong to others. That’s quite a function. There are benefits to apologizing when it’s unwarranted and there are benefits to ending our pronouncements with a whimper rather than a bang. In fact, here’s something the think pieces never mention: the same people who scoff at our vocal fry and upspeak would likely be even 
more
 uncomfortable with the version of our voice that’s 
strong all the way to the end; they just don’t realize the whole damn thing’s a setup.


But it’s a setup we can outwit.


First of all, listen for vocal fry in yourself and your friends. Listen when your favorite movie stars go on the talk show circuit and YouTubers post new videos. You’ll start to notice that every time their voice enters that scrapy lower register it 
does
 something. One function of vocal fry’s throwaway quality is that it can be employed to help you carve out an aside or a parenthetical, which can be a valuable way of signaling high priority and low priority thoughts for the listener. (Watch Emma Stone and Jennifer Lawrence together in a loose and chatty 
W Magazine
 shoot and you’ll hear it all over. J-Law says to Emma, “You’ve watched 
Land Before
—no wait! We’ve already [goes fried] talked about [then even more fried] 
Land Before Time
.”)
17
 Indeed, another function of vocal fry is to reference an element of irony or humor. Relatedly, it can help us acknowledge that what we’re saying is tropey and we know it, like the aural equivalent of scare quotes. I use it like that all the time. It’s in Oprah’s “I knoooow.” And in Jennifer suggesting Emma’s real name is a great porn star name. Without missing a beat, Emma says in all-fry, “That’s … really nice of you to say.” And Jen responds, equally fried, “You’re welcome.”


When we speak with vocal fry at work around our superiors it can also serve as a trial balloon—tentatively suggesting something with a keen eye to how it’s received. It functions as an effective way to throw an idea out but then take it back just a little bit at the end for safety’s sake, in case someone in a more powerful position disagrees with us. That’s not necessarily a bad thing: we may well be signaling that we have an idea, but we’re not rigid; we’re open to others’ views. In any case, it’s 
a protective move, indicating we can withstand disagreement and we’re low-maintenance.


Indeed, vocal fry is associated with a quality of chill. Speech language pathologists will tell you it’s not possible to speak in vocal fry if your throat is tight. It 
requires
 that the vocal cords be relaxed. Professional singers will tell you that deliberately frying their voice while holding a vowel sound is actually part of a healthy vocal warm-up—it relaxes tension in the cords. There’s a reason academic papers on the phenomenon use words like “uninterested,” “detached,” and “unenthusiastic” to try to capture the spirit of the sound (or of the user … the line blurs). And since vocal fry can imply a relaxed attitude, you may feel the impulse to use it to signal a downshift into a casual tone from a more formal one. In all these cases, its use can read as confidence because you’re, like, so cool in that room. At the intersection of gender and age bias lies this widespread cultural assumption that “childlike” enthusiasm and zeal marks you as naïve. This drives me mad, and I have a lot to say about it (see the following chapter). Here, I’ll offer that if vocal frying the ends of your remarks reads as cynical and just plain over it, it can be a pretty useful defense against being branded as girly or wide-eyed. In short, this vocal flourish can keep us uncommitted and unknowable, which is always safer than committed and known. As Aaron Burr says in 
Hamilton,
 “Talk less; smile more. Don’t let them know what you’re against or what you’re for.” He’s not the one we love, but he does manage to stay alive.


Vocal fry has become such a common element of modern speech that it serves one more important function: it’s a membership card to the club. As Deborah Tannen wrote in her pop-linguistic classic 
You Just Don’t Understand: Women and 
Men in Conversation,
 “There’s a fundamental human impulse to imitate what we hear.”
18
 She says, “Teenagers talk this way because other teenagers talk this way, and they want to sound like their peers.” No matter your age, it can give you social capital to sound current, and it feels good to sound like the people you associate yourself with or want to. If enough of us are vibrating our vocal cords in this manner, then a well-placed, super-fried “let’s be honest” or “too soon” or “amaaaazing” will inevitably help build trust and connection with one another.


In fact, in any of your utterances you might use vocal fry not because you’ve got an impulse to shrink but because you’re mirroring your friends, fitting into your tribe, signaling you belong. And what’s wrong with sounding like the people you love? It’s literally why there are differences in how we speak all over the world. Language variation is the result of millennia of tribal us-versus-them-ness presenting in how we speak. Imagine a lost caveperson coming upon a group of hunters and breathing a sigh of relief because they all grunt in matching vocal fry.


And this is certainly a reason why characterizing your own vocal fry as either good or bad is pretty useless: a lot of the time, it simply helps us connect. It helps us be funny and relevant and real. It’s a habit that feels entirely comfortable to quite a lot of us, and the more comfortable we are when we speak, the more likely we’ll feel free and joyful. And that’s when our greatest communication happens.


Some of the earliest groundbreaking research on upspeak came from Dr. Cynthia McLemore, who was a fly on the wall at one particular Texas sorority in the late 1980s.
19
 She studied the sisters’ intonation in various contexts and discovered some
thing profound: swooping up at the end of sentences wasn’t used to suggest uncertainty or deference. Au contraire. It was most employed by the sorority’s leaders and senior members as a helpful rhetorical device, to tag new information. For example, “Okay, so we’re having a party? On Saturday? That’s fire and ice themed?” But upspeak 
wasn’t
 used for previously discussed information, like “As you all know, we’re raising funds for our new hot tub.”


In many cases that’s still how upspeak functions today—to highlight something new (go up) instead of something already established (go down, maybe even into fry). That NPR correspondent—you know? The one talking about Biden?—was offering a fresh take, rather than repeating some universally acknowledged truth. And as is the case when we introduce ourselves (and, ahem, especially if our name is unusual), our intention is likely not just to dole out the name but also to check that it lands. We’re stating new information and asking 
Do you know what I mean?
 at the same time. It’s efficient. And it’s about taking into account the experience of our listener.


In fact, various studies suggest upspeak is a generous act, even if it’s one we’re not always conscious of committing. It helps buoy conversation; it’s like a welcome sign with our voice. Linguists have found that in chat among men versus among women (leaving aside mixed-gender company, for the moment), men tend to add to a discussion to compete while women do so to collaborate. The upward energy at the end of a statement suggests an open-ended offering instead of a closed one, a built-in “But what do you think?”


According to Amanda Montell in her book 
Wordslut: A Feminist Guide to Taking Back the English Language,
 women’s conversations “have a distinctive turn-taking structure—
a style of talk that [British linguist Dr. Jennifer] Coates likens to a musical jam session.”
20
 In other words, when women talk together, the floor is open and the hierarchy is flattened; everyone involved is saying, without saying, 
Come on in.
 Montell points out that “in such conversations, you might hear overlapping talk, speakers repeating one another, or rephrasing each other’s words. Everyone is working together to construct meaning, and thus the one-speaker-at-a-time rule does not apply.” The open-ended energy of upspeak is like a handoff to the next person to make her mark on the discussion because the conversation itself is more important than any one conversationalist. Needless to say, if men don’t traditionally converse this way but instead take turns holding the floor and “playing expert,” mixed-gender conversations can easily tangle.


When I work with actors on scripted language, we tend to talk about these pitch options at the end of the line of dialogue in terms of “open or closed,” referring to whether the arc of the pitch curves up at the end of the thought or down. It may seem minute, but choices like these reflect a character’s state of mind. “I’m gonna go” on the page can sound like “I’m gonna … go?” with an upward energy at the end, which suggests checking in with the other character, maybe it’s a threat or a test, or maybe it’s seeking permission, but in any case, it’s 
seeking something
. Upward energy engages the other person—it’s a request for a reaction. And it’s a generous act. “I’m gonna go” with a downward energy, where you really play the period the writer wrote at the end of the line, suggests someone who’s truly done, who has shut down the conversation. There’s nothing inherently wrong with that, but it’s a choice. As speech acts go, these two options offer a stark contrast—which can even be relationship-defining, in more dramatic scenes. And so it is 
with us. The benefit of upspeak is that it keeps us open—vocally, emotionally, philosophically, all ways.


In fact, hedging is a generous act as well. Adding fillers or softening terms to your statements—um, uh, I mean, just, kinda, like—are what critics call vocal tics, little tells that we lack confidence or clearheadedness. And some of the time, that may be the case. But savvy linguists call these vocal tactics, not tics. Tactics to achieve what? To take care of each other, vocally. Dr. Coates, the linguist who defined conversational jam sessions, explains that hedges “are used to respect the face needs of all participants, to negotiate sensitive topics, and to encourage the participation of others.”
21
 We’re often acutely aware of face needs, though we may not use that term—it’s helping everyone around us avoid humiliation or the appearance of being wrong in order to keep things running smoothly. Softening terms do this heavy lifting and, according to a famous study that analyzed 263 separate transcriptions, they’re “more common among women, younger participants, and more conscientious people.”
22
 We hedge when we don’t have power, or not enough. We help the more powerful save face, stay in their good graces, and earn a little sway in return.


And “um” and “uh” are generous as well. They’re actually tiny, helpful signposts on the path toward finishing our thoughts so listeners don’t get lost. And it turns out they’re used relatively evenly among men and women. If you’re worried that they’re awkward indicators that you’re floundering, you might find comfort in considering them instead as well-placed hints to your listeners that you’re about to take a brief pause to find a word. In fact, there are studies suggesting that we instinctively tend to use “uh” when we’re about to take a short pause, and “um” for a slightly longer one. And if we fear 
we’re uh-ing all over the place, according to one study, we actually use these signals of an upcoming delay mostly mid-thought, not in between thoughts. It seems we really do just want to make sure that if our language lacks flow, we acknowledge it and help it along. “Uh” and “um” don’t detract from our communication; they are part of our communication. Just like a big in-breath at the top of a tough statement, or a sigh at the end, they mean something to our listeners—and something not at all bad.


And “like” is just unfairly maligned.
23
 Canadian linguist Dr. Alexandra D’Arcy points out there are six, count ’em, 
six
 completely distinct meanings of “like.” Is it our fault they’re all pronounced the same? English speakers tend to not even notice that the two oldest and least contentious of them—
I like you
 (verb), and 
but not like that
 (preposition)—are completely different words with unrelated meanings and origins. They are just homonyms, waltzing around confusing everyone. Check out Montell’s 
Wordslut
 for an exquisite takedown of the “like” critics and an explanation of all six “likes.” Google the definition of “like” to get a taste. Suffice it to say: it turns out that almost every single one is used as much by men as by women—including “I’ve had this, like, forever.” Except that when men do it, it’s called speaking, and when women do it, it’s considered an annihilation of the English language and, apparently, our credibility along with it.


So, here’s the deal: These habits—vocal fry, upspeak, hedging, excessive apology—clearly have their benefits. Many beautiful and useful and relationship-nurturing benefits. But, you knew this was coming, they also have their drawbacks. One, of course, is how these vocal signals are perceived by people who don’t use them (or don’t know they use them), 
people who may very well be the gatekeepers to the future you want. It could be worth it to explore other options simply to get through the bolted gate.


But to be fair, those gatekeepers aren’t all just shortsighted bias machines. Vocal fry might read as “uncertain” to some listeners, or “cool” to others, but either way, 
if it’s a means of hiding, the result is that you sound like you’re hiding.
 Listeners may well just be confused, wondering if you mean what you’re saying or not. And upspeak, too, can be confusing. If we habitually go up on every clause as well as at the end of every thought, it’s easy for the ear (and not just old, crotchety ones, alas) to get lost in the repetitive pattern of swoops and lose the logic of what we’re actually saying.


But there’s another profound reason to reconsider all these habits. Below the surface of so many of their benefits is a hard truth: our parents, our dolls, our magazines, our teachers, our crushes, our clothing options, have told us in ways subtle and obvious that taking up too much space is unfeminine, and that extends to the size of our voices too. According to Penelope Eckert and Sally McConnell-Ginet in their seminal feminist linguistics book, 
Language and Gender,
 “From infancy, male and female children are interpreted differently, and interacted with differently. Experimental evidence suggests that adults’ perceptions of babies are affected by their beliefs about the babies’ sex.”
24
 For example, “adults judged a 24-hour-old baby as bigger if they believed it to be a boy, and finer-featured if they believed it to be a girl.” And not surprisingly, these judgments affect the way people interact with babies and toddlers and bigger kids too. “People handle infants more gently when they believe them to be female, more playfully when they believe them to be male. And they talk to them differently. Parents use 
more diminutives (
kitty, doggie
) when speaking to girls than to boys.” Is it any wonder that by the time we’re women we’ve perfected diminutive? That we take up as little space as possible with our voices too?


Listen: private, intimate, and deliberately casual conversations among pals might benefit from fluent use of the vocal tactics above. In fact, that’s what Glennon and Oprah were doing—they just let us watch. Same with Emma and Jen. But big, public presentations, or even the sort of private conversations where the stakes are high, the ideas are consequential, and there’s the chance power might shift in the room, are just different. The difference is that 
it is not a jam session anymore.
 You do not have to share the floor, and in fact, you shouldn’t. You do not need to lean on the vocal tactics you’ve picked up to stay small, be generous, and get by in rooms of power. Keeping the peace isn’t the only goal anymore—it may actually not be your goal at all.


We are wildly social creatures who pick up on whispers in the air, tiny shifts in allegiance or trust among friends or coworkers, and we vary our voices accordingly. But we do not always know how to read a bigger or less familiar room. So we bring our habits with us, unexamined, and every habit above—from vocal fry to upspeak, hedging, and apologizing—helps us stay unintimidating and small when big might seal the deal. We accidentally reflect our lifetime of squeezing rather than our intention to expand.


In Oprah’s famous 2018 Golden Globes speech, when she spoke to a solemn audience wearing all black in honor of #TimesUp and told the painful story of Recy Taylor, she left the vocal fry in the wings.
25
 We, too, can choose to expand or contract our voice to the size of our audience’s need for scope 
or intimacy, big or little, lofty or light. We, too, can choose how we interact with our crowd, choose what sort of relationship we’re building with them. Our actual voice can reflect these choices, laden with markers of conversational and generational style—or not. And it’s 
still us
.


So, who is this enormous-venue version of you who hogs the floor and owns the room and throws in some trendy vocal flourishes when she pleases but not when she doesn’t? I want to know this woman who is unyielding in getting to the end of her thought and hands it over without apology because she matches her voice to the size of her mission.


In order to take charge of what might previously have been habits rather than conscious vocal choices, my favorite trick is the Imaginary Ball exercise. It’s a chance to get clear about your options, to grab hold of your vocal energy and experiment with throwing it up (upspeak), down (vocal fry), or out (scary as hell). This exercise will help you notice your own habits, play with breaking them, and help you learn to take up the right amount of space for your goals. (P.S. There’s no official “right” amount. It’s about what feels good, brave, expressive, and true, and what works with your listeners. Did I mention, this is a practice?)


To do this exercise, stand up, ideally alone in a room, and get in ready stance—feet apart, breathing from as low as possible. Now use your arm to throw an imaginary ball (the size of, say, an orange) underhand, up toward the ceiling, while saying something uncomplicated, like “Hello, my name is ___.” Try to match your pitch to the curve of the ball’s trajectory, so your voice swoops from low to high as your ball does. Really match it; it’s okay if it sounds more singsong than normal speech. 
Time the flick of your wrist and imaginary ball release to the most important part of the thought, likely your name. Next, throw this imaginary ball down, matching the pitch again. Then throw the ball out, with so much force that it feels like the ball—and your voice—will hit the wall across the room. Step back some more, so you can throw it even farther. And yes, it’s totally cool if you feel silly; you’re throwing a fake ball. That looks like an orange.


Check in with your body. Are you tensing your neck, or bracing and forgetting to breathe? Notice especially if you get louder when you try to throw the ball straight out—“my name is SAMARA!!!” That’s an understandable first step, but this isn’t about volume; it’s about intention. It’s about Megan Rapinoe’s fingers energized 
beyond
 the fingers themselves. If letting the end of your thought bend either up or down reroutes the energy away from your target, explore what it takes to hit your target. Is it more energy? Experiment with how quietly you can hit your target with your words. How intensely. Now with how much ease. How much charm. How much 007 bravado. Sometimes clients laugh, not because the exercise is silly but because saying something like you mean it, without taking it back or hedging, feels surprisingly dangerous.


The next step, after you get comfortable with throwing that pretend ball out and matching the trajectory with pitch and intention, is to speak aloud more and more complicated and emotionally charged statements:




I need help.
 (Go back to 
Chapter 1
 and try the variations I offered, but this time think about the end of the thought too.)


My idea will work. Trust me.


I am the best person for the job.


I believe that ___ is the greatest food in the universe.


I’m sure I’m right.


I’m speaking.




Personalize this for yourself. While throwing out the pretend ball in the relative safety of a room all alone, try saying something you’re proud of. Try saying something you’re bad at, but own the heck out of it. No “kind of” or “um” for now. Share something you like about yourself like it’s an assured fact. Share a secret that you haven’t told anyone, and mean it all the way to the end. Try it again. Challenge yourself.


Now see if you can drop the hand gesture and keep the feeling of throwing the ball out. Get familiar with the feeling of hitting that target; the more we hear ourselves do it, the more normal it becomes. Record yourself and listen back to the recording. Try it twenty-five times and by the end you won’t be thinking, 
I hate the sound of my voice;
 you’ll be thinking, 
I’ve got this
.


Alex is an epidemiologist in her early thirties I met when we were on set together for a Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson film in Atlanta during the fall of 2020—I was coaching; she was consulting on Covid protocols. We were both outside on a sunny Saturday afternoon with our laptops, sitting more than six feet apart, on a long, rounded bench in an abandoned amphitheater. We were both writing books, we discovered, and she told me that she’d recently been on a bunch of news shows as a guest expert. She was pleased (while, of course, suitably horrified) that her hard-earned PhD was now so relevant, and was in the process of turning her dissertation in for publication. 
After one interview on CNN, she received an email from the female anchor, who offered some stern advice. She told Alex, You kept stopping yourself. Don’t stop yourself; let us do that. Expand to take up the time you have and trust that we want to know what you have to say.


Alex said it blew her mind; she didn’t realize she needed that permission, but she did. It brought me back to college: In my senior year I finally got a leading role, playing Mrs. Lovett in a production of 
Sweeney Todd.
 The formidable head of the acting program sat in on a final rehearsal and asked to speak with me alone at the end. I was nervous as I approached him, resisting needing his approval but desperate for it nonetheless. The professor said, “Samara, you’re giving away all your power. You can be fantastic in this, but you’re being too generous. Pretend the show’s called 
Mrs. Lovett
.” It was a huge whoa moment for me. He was right. I had been turning to my costar instead of taking the spotlight for myself. I had been exceedingly generous when that wasn’t the job at all.


Just saying, I killed it up there. (Literally—it’s a musical about murder.) But seriously, I found so much joy and freedom after I was given that permission. And joy and freedom are what get us to take up the space we deserve. If you need permission to be the main character in your life, here it is. We think of “entitled” as a dirty word, but there are two very different definitions. As an adjective, “entitled” means snobby, believing you deserve special treatment. But as a verb it means to have 
just claim
 to receive or to do something. You have 
just claim
 to take up space. You are entitled to it. And let’s be honest: I’m happy to give you permission, like that professor did, but it works best if you give it to yourself.


Permission is always about vanquishing pesky limiting be
liefs, and this is why it’s a practice: when we conquer one round of ’em, there are more that are happy to enter the fray. It’s the former president of Princeton University sitting on that stage nodding at all of us, telling us that uncertainty may never go away entirely. It’s AOC, who told 
Vanity Fair
 journalist Michelle Ruiz about the fear she had when she was younger of failing the memory of her father: “I used to, frankly, abuse myself mentally about how I’m nothing.”
26
 She added, “I realized that I need to choose myself because if I don’t, I’m just going to waste away.” In other words: she gave herself permission to take up space. But she still needed to sit on her couch and practice it and then practice some more.


When you feel those limiting beliefs tug at your joy and freedom, when you hear that infamous imposter syndrome whisper, 
You’re not up for this,
 in a voice that sounds like wisdom, please remind yourself that in the entire history of the world, women are still seconds into this having-a-voice-in-public thing. As my dear friend creativity coach Liz Kimball wrote in a 
Medium
 piece on imposter syndrome, “Most of us are aware of the professional and strategic value of becoming better advocates of our work, taking a stand for our accomplishments, and accepting compliments, but it can be helpful to remember that many of us are the first generation in the history of our families and cultures to do so (just think how regularly you heard your grandmother or a female relative deflect compliments or downplay her magnificence).”
27
 I know I have. We are disrupting some seriously entrenched shit.


And when it feels like an impossible task, here are some permission hacks I’ve collected to free up your voice. First, when you worry you’re a fraud, ask yourself: Who can I help? I say yes to almost every email I receive from someone seeking mentor
ship; those conversations reframe my struggles into lessons better than any self-affirmations ever could. When we help mentees, siblings, friends, and anyone coming up behind us or wracked with a problem we’ve already solved for ourselves, it reminds us of what we’ve overcome and how much we actually do know what we’re doing after all. It’s a gift to see ourselves through their eyes, and it reminds us how powerful we are.


Here’s another one: I don’t often turn to religion for speech coaching tools but I’m also exceedingly practical; why ignore ancient wisdom that’s helped countless people, if it might help us? So go with me on this. After she left the White House, the Obamas’ speechwriter Sarah Hurwitz wrote a book about discovering Judaism. It’s called 
Here All Along
 and in it, she describes a rabbi named Yitz Greenberg who speaks of “three inalienable dignities”:
28




We are each of infinite worth—no one is expendable, and we cannot quantify the value of any human life.


We are all fundamentally equal—no human being is any more important than any other human being.


We are each totally unique—there is no one else like us, and no one is interchangeable with anybody else.




We have value, we’re of equal value, but we’re all different. If you’re like me, you’re probably nodding, sure, sure. We were taught this as kids; we teach our own kids this stuff. You don’t have to be a member of any religion to recognize that these “dignities” are a set of values that all boil down to treating people fairly. The thing is, though, many of us aren’t living in alignment with our values, either because we have biases we haven’t considered and actually 
are
 treating people unfairly, or be
cause 
we’re treating ourselves unfairly
. Do you believe you are of infinite worth? Do you believe you are of equal importance as a human being compared to your boss or that celebrity or that brilliant speaker who’s got it all together? Do you believe that you are unique and that it is exactly your weirdness that renders you of infinite worth? Or are you denying yourself the regard you give others?


I think it’s also worthwhile to poke at the spirit of generosity bound up in the vocal patterns discussed in this chapter. Generosity is about giving. But we 
can
 give too much. We can perform gratitude till we have nothing left. Sometimes the nudge we get to be grateful, blinking at us from a meme or proffered in a yoga class, is a reminder to appreciate what we’ve taken for granted. Being grateful can lift our spirits. But sometimes the nudge we get to be grateful is a censure, a reminder to play the part. Maybe it comes in the form of “I don’t deserve to ask for more; I should be grateful for what I’ve got.” This kind of gratitude is a practice many of us have honed over a lifetime of performing it, in deference to those in positions of power. But this kind of gratitude amounts to policing ourselves against having correct responses to unfair circumstances. It erodes the spirit. So, here’s another permission hack. It’s a quick flow chart on how to navigate constructive versus destructive gratitude:




Is it something that makes me feel warm and connected? It’s gratitude.


Is it something that makes me feel cold and isolated? It’s not.




Just like an apology, a 
thank-you
 can be sincere and serve to even out an imbalance—or it can feel obligatory and synthetic, 
a gratitude show we perform for an audience we’re teaching to continue undervaluing us. It serves a purpose, but as with all the vocal tactics I described in this chapter, the purpose is to keep us safe, not help us grow.


Stacey Abrams knew she was “supposed to say nice things and accept [her] fate”
29
 after the 2018 Georgia gubernatorial race was stolen from her, thanks to systematic voter suppression. But she decided not to play the gratitude game anymore. In 
Lead from the Outside,
 she writes:




As outsiders, we are expected to continue on as the system commands, primarily to preserve our ability to participate and, just maybe, one day, win the lottery of opportunity to be the one who slips inside the door. I fully recognize the process and how effective it is. My problem is, I don’t like it, and I believe we can fix it.




This posture of gratitude, if we habitually adopt it even when circumstances are unfair, in no way prepares us to take up the space we deserve once we do slip inside the door. We are done clutching our lottery ticket, hoping for good luck. We’re making our own luck.


For me, when imposter syndrome strikes, I get claustrophobic. I forget how interconnected I am to those who are most dear to me, who, of course, would never call me an imposter. The voice that says, 
You’re not up for this
 or 
They’re gonna find out you’re a fake
 is really saying, 
You are not of value—you actually
 shouldn’t 
believe in yourself
. But everything shifts when I make a list of the people who do value me. So, this is your last permission hack: consider your sphere of influence, those who care about you and care about what you 
have to say. We are not just the size of our bodies in a room, or the size of our voices as they hit air, we’re also the size of our influence. We influence everyone who’s ever loved us. Everyone who’s ever celebrated us. Everyone who’s ever learned something new from us. And we’re actually already enormous.

















3


Emotion




If women had also been the protagonists of societies’ teaching tales, swords in stones and bombs bursting in air would have been no more laudatory than educating children and tending the garden …. The culture would not only revere the strong and silent type; it would also be cool to be talkative, brave to cry, noble to feel and relate.


—ELIZABETH LESSER,
 
Cassandra Speaks
1




My client Petra was called into a performance review at her investment firm and told that she had a bad habit of getting too excited when things went well and too upset when things went badly—and that she needed to learn to “compartmentalize better.” She remembers nodding at this, her face neutral while her mind lighted on all the times she’d already stifled herself at work. She remembers trying to keep very still while her body felt as if it was screaming like creatures from Dante’s 
Inferno
.


Petra isn’t the first to be told that pleasant detachment is the outlook of choice around the office and that emotions are dangerous territory for women. It’s a story that dates back to when emotions were called “humours,” a term coined in ancient Greece to describe bodily fluids like bile, which the Greeks believed dictated temperament, and when uteruses 
were thought to migrate around the body, rubbing up on various organs and throwing women’s humours out of whack. In those days, women’s tongues were ripped out for caring enough to speak up about injustice—say, naming their rapists. And a thousand or so years later, inconveniently loud and truth-telling women were burned at the stake, then in the twentieth century institutionalized or as late as the 1980s lobotomized if they didn’t act dutifully repressed. Anything to shut us up. Anything to keep those compartments firmly in place.


Today, we’re more likely to be merely humiliated or dismissed or gossiped about if we appear overly emotional. But we get the message: at the office, or on that regular Zoom meeting, we shouldn’t care too much or we’ll seem crazy—a word whose power to shame reverberates through time and space, from witch trials of yore to the systematic discrediting of survivors today. And if we accidentally come across as overeager or oversensitive or over-anything despite our best attempts to squelch it, we run the risk of being labeled 
too much
. The fear of that label looms, outsized, over every woman I know. And in ways both massive and microscopic, it muzzles us.


So maybe you, like me, like Petra, do this thing sometimes that feels like you are hiding your heart. Maybe you slouch your shoulders or cross your arms. Maybe you perfect a neutral face and steady voice, and you say “It’s fine” when it isn’t and “I’m good” when you’re not. Maybe you feel your throat tighten as you tamp down on your organic reactions, but reason with yourself that it’s the cost of doing business. Indeed, according to researchers who contributed a chapter to the 2016 
Handbook on Well-Being of Working Women,
 women rack up social and economic penalties for acting otherwise. 
“They are judged as lacking emotional control, which ultimately undermines women’s competence and professional legitimacy.”
2
 So, why 
wouldn’t
 we hide our emotions?


But this tendency to hide has a bigger cost when you bring practiced detachment with you onto a larger stage and when you’re speaking about work that’s closer to your heart. You might talk about what you care about, but sound like you don’t. Maybe this has worked at some point in the past; neutral can often pass for cool and collected. But in my experience, it only works up to a point—the point where you want to (a) feel alive and (b) become the most powerful and potent version of yourself.


“The way we use pitch, tone, or color in language has a purpose,”
3
 wrote twentieth-century speech and oratory scholar Dr. Wallace Bacon, “to arouse feelings in the listener necessary to convey the meaning to the listener.” It’s such a fundamental aspect of communication that it’s easy to take for granted: in order to convey the true meaning of what we’re saying, we need to pass along to our listeners not only our words but the emotions that go with them. We need to pass along the intention or spirit that motivated the words to begin with. That is the actual unit of communication. Our natural speech could be as flat as a robot’s if all we needed to convey was language. And if that were true, we probably wouldn’t have evolved to have the stunning anatomical apparatus that is our vocal cords.


But we have. And our ears have evolved to hear the emotions in others’ voices and feel roused by them. “The same neuronal areas of the brain are activated by seeing someone emotionally aroused as being emotionally aroused oneself,”
4
 confirms Dr. Michael Trimble, a behavioral neurologist at University College London. It’s an ancient dance our bodies were 
built for: we speak with emotion, it elicits emotion in our listeners, our nervous systems engage with one another, and we feel connection. We feel alive.


My client Juliana was taking a massive leap in moving from working as a full-time reality-TV editor to pitching her own projects to direct. She came to me because she could tell that her pitching style needed a boost: she sounded so flat and businesslike that she wasn’t moving the room, and the room wasn’t buying her pitches. She won the neutral game but lost out on real engagement.


My client Chris was pitching his latest TV show idea around Hollywood and came to me because he noticed his nerves weren’t helping his banter: “I keep telling dumb jokes up top and undercutting myself.” He got flushed even recalling it. “Why am I doing this?” he asked earnestly.


“In order to hide your vulnerability,” I responded. The word gets thrown around so much that it’s easy to lose sight of its real meaning. Scroll Instagram and “vulnerable” can seem like a shorthand for “Let them see you cry.” I’m not opposed to crying in front of people, but that’s not really the point. Vulnerability is the holes in our armor, which we can either scramble to patch up or daringly display—as if to say, 
This is where you can hurt me, because I’m a real human underneath. I’m soft. I have feelings.
 Alain de Botton has said, “What builds connection is an acquaintance with one’s own vulnerability and the recognition of the other’s vulnerability.”
5
 Vulnerability is showing that heart we’re so used to hiding.


And the surest way to do so is to show people that you care. Caring, out loud, is wildly vulnerable and wildly brave. The kind of bravery that makes listeners perk up and be braver themselves. This is what Juliana and Chris needed to practice. 
This is the opposite of neutral. This is the opposite of deflecting with jokes. This is dangerous and thrilling. When you stake a claim on what matters to you, you show the holes in your armor and you turn a regular ol’ meet-and-greet into trust and connection and love; it’s like alchemy.


I once heard a casting director say to a roomful of would-be TV hosts learning to read a teleprompter naturalistically, “When you fuck up, the audience falls in love with you.” She didn’t mean the fuckup itself held any power; she meant that seeing you grapple honestly with a misstep, because you care enough to get it right, is incredibly endearing. No matter what context, when you show you care, with your true emotions, you’re saying, 
This—here!—is the exact shape and size of the opening in my armor.
 You are saying, 
I am exposing myself.
 You are saying, 
You can hurt me, and it will cost me something.


And your boss, your audience, the media may indeed hurt you, and life is sometimes bone-crushingly unfair. In some rooms, vulnerability isn’t worth it. But if you insist on displaying your soft spots in the rooms that really do matter, despite the risk, your audience at least has the 
chance
 to fall in love with you. You will offer them the opportunity to be emotionally aroused by you, and you by them, and to dance together. Neither Juliana nor Chris were allowing themselves to be vulnerable enough to make an actual connection with the people in the room—but they both clearly wanted to. They cared about caring. They just needed practice.


I once coached a scientist—a lanky older man who taught civil engineering at an East Coast college and wore a blue flannel button-down and a furrowed brow. He ended up telling me the story behind a ring he wears on his pinky that holds great meaning for him and that he touches often because it 
reminds him of his calling. He got misty when he talked about this ring, and his brow relaxed. It was as though he unfolded himself, and I truly saw him. But when I suggested he might start his introductory lecture to first-year undergraduates by telling his students the same story, he folded back up. “I would lose all credibility.” His voice sounded like someone else’s, and it made clear he wasn’t willing to believe that vulnerability is a strength, not a weakness. He talked himself out of trying.


It is, after all, easy to make the case for playing it safe. As Anne Kreamer, a journalist and author of 
It’s Always Personal,
 says, “In the binary shorthand we use to compartmentalize modern life, we think of home as the realm of emotion and work as the place where rationality rules.”
6
 As you consider how you sound when you speak in public, and how you 
want
 to sound, does this dichotomy loom large? Research from the 
Harvard Business Review
 references widespread evidence of work environments rife with “masculinity contest culture”
7
 where “winners demonstrate stereotypically masculine traits such as emotional toughness, physical stamina, and ruthlessness.” Although speaking in public isn’t always work-related, this manly ideal of emotion-free workspaces has a wily way of influencing our public selves. Work, after all, is where many of us get our first taste of the rewards and punishments associated with speaking up. It’s where we try on and settle into what the professional, adult version of us sounds like. Even though, as Kreamer points out, this framework where we leave our emotions at home is “a tidy distinction that crumbles in the face of experience.”


My client Vanessa has perfected her “pleasantly nonresponsive face” at work, which she says keeps her safe from unruly emotions that would be a problem if revealed. But on the flip 
side, she can’t stand her job and knows she doesn’t contribute there in a way that adds meaning to her life. So she’s currently looking for an escape. Maybe, she told me, gathering herself, she’ll start her own business and build a new work culture on her own terms, one that encourages whole personhood from her employees. She isn’t sure it’s possible—but then, she’s a little beaten down at the moment.


It’s exhausting to pretend we don’t have emotions, like we’re still trying to prove our uteruses aren’t roaming around releasing unseemly bile. An emotion is actually, technically, an automatic physiological response associated with the nervous system. It’s 
automatic
. It happens 
to
 us—and it happens to 
all
 of us. Dutch primatologist Frans de Waal has a rare perspective, since he’s spent decades among chimps and bonobos, and he famously said, “I cannot name any emotion that is uniquely human.”
8
 We share the experience of these biological hits with humans everywhere and even with animals; they’re that universal.


But bonobos aren’t compelled to suit up and pore over the capitalism playbook on their way to work. And they don’t teach themselves to pathologize emotions. There’s a term for the current incarnation of dutiful repression we humans adhere to in professional settings: “display rules.” These refer to the choices we each make to cover or minimize the emotions we’re feeling that seem out of sync with the cultural norms of whatever context we’re in.


The rules are unwritten, and, I don’t need to tell you, they serve some of us more than others. See: the media’s response to Brett Kavanaugh’s anger on the stand versus Serena Williams’s on the tennis court. Never mind that he was defending himself against accusations of a crime and she was doing her actual job; his anger was treated as legitimate and correct and 
hers was not. We read the news and watch the replay. We get the memo.


As Yale professor Dr. Marc Brackett put it in his book 
Permission to Feel,
 “the person with more power has greater latitude in expressing emotions. Parents get away with displays they’d never tolerate in their children. In the classroom, the teacher is the boss, and the children are the bossed, a dynamic that carries over in the workplace, whether we want it to or not.”
9
 And it’s clear that often the power dynamic isn’t related to formal relationships at all; it’s a set of social biases reflecting who’s historically been allowed to show the full range of human emotions without penalty and who hasn’t. As self-proclaimed disrupter Jodi-Ann Burey put it in her TED Talk “The Myth of Bringing Your Full, Authentic Self to Work”: “A distorted elaboration of white cultural norms and the standards that meet the comforts of those who hold social and institutional power—that’s 
professionalism
.”
10


Nanci Luna Jiménez founded a thirty-year-old institute in the Pacific Northwest that offers anti-racism workshops for people and their organizations, and she asks, “Who gets to be human in a society that upholds white supremacy and patriarchy and domination and capitalism?”
11
 Who gets to be fully human is quite a question. And, since we’re thinking about our voices: Who gets to sound fully human? And who decides? If we’re changing what power sounds like, this must change too.


Nanci’s groundbreaking work focuses on undoing what she calls “adultism”—display rules we feel pressured to follow even before we enter the workforce. As she describes it, most of us were taught as children to hold back, downplay, and dissociate from our outsized emotions and to play at being adults too soon. “We were mocked for our idealism; we were mocked 
for our sheer joy,” she tells me when I asked her why she thinks we’ve got such a complicated relationship with our emotions.


As she sees it, it’s a cycle repeated generation to generation: As little kids, we’re wild and free and deeply attuned to what is and isn’t fair and we loudly express how we feel about that—until we learn that these displays aren’t socially acceptable. We hear 
shh, sit down, sit still, don’t cry, shake it off, relax, you’re fine, you’re overreacting, you need to calm down
. And we conform. And we grow up. Maybe we have kids of our own. And then, just as our parents did before us, “in an attempt to make life ‘easier’ for our children, we pass on the hurt that we didn’t heal from,” she says. “We think, if our children show up already contained, their life will go better. We think we’re protecting our young people from feeling disappointment. So, we keep projecting the guardrails that have limited our life and capacity to care and feel the range of human emotions. There’s no parent who will ever say, ‘Yeah, I became a parent to crush my child.’ But oppressive society forces us into that role.” She adds, “We become that adult that we thought our parents wanted us to be, but it was really who they thought we had to be to survive.”


“Adultism” is a word that captures the systematic stunting of our emotional development, so we no longer feel as free as we did as children. To me, it’s also a nod to the creeping suspicion I know I’ve certainly felt that being an adult or “adulting” is just a construct: it’s what we do to make money and get by. There’s a reason, as Nanci points out, that “young people will lead every major social movement from now until the end of time. Because they’re not connected into the economic system yet. It’s exactly why they’re devalued, and exactly why they know what doesn’t work. They’re not confused.”


How much do we tone-police our children because their behavior is truly disrespectful, and how much because we’re uncomfortable with their big emotions, especially around issues of fairness? I check myself every day to make sure I’m not perpetuating adultism in my kid. But it’s worth asking how much we tone-police ourselves as well, because perhaps we’re uncomfortable with 
our
 big emotions. Perhaps we’re feeling big emotions because something is not fair, but we try to convince ourselves we’re being ridiculous. 
You’re fine. You’re overreacting. You need to calm down.


But how we speak to ourselves about our emotions matters. We use the words “emotions” and “feelings” somewhat interchangeably in everyday life, but the distinction between them is extremely useful here: 
emotions
 happen in our body and they’re universal. 
Feelings,
 on the other hand, are defined by experts like Dr. Brackett as something else—not the chemical hits in our body, but rather our mind’s 
interpretation
 of those hits. Feelings are stories. Feelings are the narratives we tell ourselves or have been told 
about
 those emotions.


People can read our emotions, but they cannot read our feelings because our feelings are our inner dialogue. They’re where what we 
say
 we value in the abstract bumps against what we 
actually
 value when the shit hits the fan. And these conversations with ourselves are inevitably culture-specific and intensely personal. How we interpret what’s happening when we get emotional is subject to all kinds of biases we’ve picked up, and all kinds of stories our parents or our first boyfriend or our boss told us. Like “Real men don’t cry,” or “No one likes a woman who’s too much,” or “Crying at work is unprofessional,” or “Your anger is ugly,” or “Caring is uncool.”


Those whispers in our head check us just when we might 
break free. I think of writer-director Emerald Fennell accepting the Academy Award for 
Promising Young Woman
 and spending a sizable chunk of her time at the microphone talking about trying not to cry, rather than just crying and moving along. Or my friend Sandra, who courageously spoke to a crowd about the abuse she suffered as a child—but when she felt familiar emotions begin to bubble up, she reprimanded herself. “Stop it,” she told herself, loudly enough that we could all hear it. “Stop being such a baby.” I think of Soraya Chemaly’s book 
Rage Becomes Her,
 brimming with data about how women around the world compromise their health by suppressing their anger, and how their mothers did, and their mothers.
12
 I’ve heard it from clients and in workshops I’ve run again and again. We school ourselves to act emotionally neutral even if some deeper, wiser part of us knows better. We repeat these old clichés and they wreak havoc on our sense of permission, shutting us down when our emotions seek to burst forth. Yes, it’s self-defense, but it’s also self-silencing and self-sabotage, and that is a bummer of the highest order.


But this understanding of “feelings” offers hope. It means that how we talk to ourselves matters. And that the tiny ways we categorize our emotions as they arise all day every day add up. That which whispers we adhere to and which we reject can change the course of our life. It means that we’re not just reacting to the codes of our culture but continually perpetuating and creating that culture. We are taking the hits of millennia of messaging, but 
we are also the message
. We have within us the power to check our biases and reconsider how we respect our emotions and those of everybody we know. And we must, together.


We can build the world we’d rather live in—we’re already 
doing it, just by examining these old stories and who they serve. We can decide collectively that, as Elizabeth Lesser writes, it’s “cool to be talkative, brave to cry, noble to feel and relate.” Because the alternative keeps those of us who don’t look and sound like Brett Kavanaugh in a fraught relationship with our own voice. When we deliberately suppress our emotional connection to what we’re saying, we limit our pitch, tone, and expressivity. We hide. And inevitably, we limit how much feeling we arouse in our listener too. If that’s the goal, great. If your boss is like Petra’s and the times demand it, repress away. But I’m interested in the other times; I’m interested in you becoming the most powerful and potent version of yourself.


The world’s greatest minds have figured out how to get us to the moon, and still, no one has been able to build a larynx from scratch. This beautiful, versatile apparatus of ours has the potential to create sound waves that emerge from us carrying new ideas full of rich emotional content directly into the ears of our fellow humans, so they see us and get us. But that can’t happen if we keep believing the old story that emotions make us weak.


There’s another story, and I bet this one will sound equally familiar, even though it entirely contradicts the earlier one. This story isn’t about labeling big feelings bad. It’s the opposite. This one is that 
we love passion
. All of us. International management consulting firms McKinsey and Bain Capital even love passion—it’s one of the first words they use to describe the type of ideal employee they seek to hire, according to organizational behavioralist Dr. Lizzie Wolf, who runs studies on emotion in the workplace. And no matter how skeptical we 
might be of seeing that listed in a corporate job description, it’s hard to deny why companies might say it: we love being around passion too.


Think of who you look forward to spending time with. Is it the friend who succeeds at coming across as endlessly cool or the one who’s bursting with excitement? We might admire or envy people for whom things seem easy, who glide through life all breezy and blasé. But we don’t necessarily trust them. Or have fun with them. This game—the “who can hide their humanity the best” game—is not fun. For those of us who try to pull it off, it’s hell on our nervous system, it’s hell on our sense of joy, and it’s hell on our ability to speak publicly in a voice that 
works
.


Think about some memorable recent acts of speaking up in public. Former Australian prime minister Julia Gillard’s famous misogyny speech comes to mind. Or 
Fosse/Verdon
 actor Michelle Williams choosing to use her 2020 Golden Globe win to publicly recognize how crucial access to birth control was to her success. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s vulnerable addresses via cellphone as war broke out. Or Black Lives Matter activist Tamika Mallory reminding the American public who looted whom during the summer of protests in the wake of George Floyd’s murder. Cool, composed speeches are out, gone the way of stiff, early-twentieth-century acting. Neutral delivery devoid of personal touch once seemed like the epitome of authoritative speech, but it now seems suspect. We in the audience yearn for something that rings true and feels urgent. We lean forward when people speak with feeling, when they reveal that they are determined, angry, heartbroken, joyful, alive. We send around video clips when we catch a glimpse of it, turning moments like those above viral. Cool, 
composed speakers don’t go viral. Boring speeches don’t go viral. We want to feel the blood pumping when our politicians and CEOs and heroes speak. We want to believe their words, and we call bullshit when we don’t. We want to hear what caring sounds like.


In this version of the story, emotions aren’t bad; they’re a sign. They’re a breathless messenger from Marathon, relaying big news. The word “emotion” comes from the Latin 
exmovére,
 “to move.” They move through us and move along once their message is delivered, if we let them do so unimpeded. And they move others too. If we’re the one speaking, emotions are a sign that we care—maybe even more than we realized. If we’re the one in the audience witnessing someone speak with emotion, the big feelings are a sign that something 
real
 is happening.


In this version of the story, emotions aren’t bad; they serve a 
purpose
. In 
Permission to Feel,
 Dr. Brackett goes to great lengths to “clear up a misunderstanding that may have been building in your mind: that permission means license to let it all hang out, to whine, yell, act on every emotional impulse, and behave as though we have no control over what we feel, so we should just go for it and freak out.”
13
 That’s not what either of us is advocating. Vulnerability vomits are fine if you just need to vent; go for it. But when we’ve got a platform, venting is rarely the intention. What is? No matter the form of public speaking you envision, there is likely a call to action—to convince your audience to move forward or change course or donate or hire you or give themselves permission. What I’m advocating is that you recruit your emotions in calling your audience to action.


This is being emotional with purpose. This is 
using
 your 
emotions, not simply having them. In fact, as a quick fix Dr. Lizzie Wolf suggests reframing even inconvenient emotional outbursts at work as “passion.”
14
 She charts how that word is often used in association with men’s emotions and is well received because it implies agency, harnessing their emotional hits for good. It suggests being in control rather than out of control, using emotions rather than just having them. She has run experiments where women at work refer to their own emotions as passion, and the results are astounding. These women are promoted, they’re picked to be on the team, they’re given professional legitimacy.


It’s a great trick to flip the script for the sake of your less-evolved colleagues, but what I’m interested in is you flipping it for yourself. I recall a rally I attended in 2018, when news first hit about the family separation crisis at the U.S.–Mexico border. Former NARAL Pro Choice America president Ilyse Hogue spoke at a gathering of hundreds at a public park, under the shade of a willow tree. But partway through her speech, her young son started sobbing and ran to the stage with his arms up. She picked him up and got teary herself as he wailed. And rather than pretend she could fight her emotions and stick to her talking points, she acknowledged the moment. “I can hold my child in my arms,” she said, her voice rising in anguish. “I can hear his screams and do something about it—the parents held at the border cannot.” We were all wrecks. Her emotions weren’t distracting; they helped her message. She was being emotional with purpose.


You might find that if you trust you can use your emotions—whatever they are—to help your message, the internal drama around them will dissipate. If, for example, you sense the beginnings of a stress response because you can tell you’re about 
to cry, breathe and remember, the tears don’t distract from the message; they are a valuable part of the message.


In acting school, when a classmate would finish a spectacular performance with tears on their cheeks, our teacher was fond of turning to us in the class and saying about the actor, “They’re not good because they’re crying; they’re crying because they’re good.” He was right: as we roared with applause, we weren’t responding to the tears like they were a clever parlor trick, we were responding to the reverberation of truth in the performance, 
and the performer was too
. Whether it’s playing a role or playing yourself, the tears aren’t the point; they’re the by-product. They have no intrinsic value, but they signal that you’re talking about something that matters, and that’s of immense value. Tears—or enthusiasm or anger or any noticeable emotion—are just what happens when we let our communication really, truly matter.


“Authenticity” is another one of those wily words that’s so overused, its meaning has become murky. Sure, we all want to be authentic—but how? Here’s my practical answer: It doesn’t just mean “be yourself,” whoever the heck that is anyway and however it aligns with workplace norms. It means reveal what matters to you 
like it matters to you
. Talk about what you care about like you care about it. If you can think of anyone whose voice you love, one of those examples above or someone from your own community who speaks up effectively, I can pretty much guarantee they are doing this.


I want to help you acquire this skill and access it more consistently so you stop attempting to, as Anne Kreamer puts it, “check our human side at the door.”
15
 We must move ourselves before moving others, and we must move others to get what 
we want—to get what we all want. Let’s start with three solid reasons to reclaim your emotions and use them when you’re speaking in public, despite messages to the contrary. Turn to these when your mind begins to rebel and you begin—like that sweet, infuriating scientist—to talk yourself out of trying.


One, when we try to uphold the separation of emotion and work, we’re each left with a false sense that 
we’re
 the one who’s doing it wrong. As far as I’m concerned this is an insidious tragedy of global proportions. I’ve seen it in my clients’ eyes; the 
why can’t I hack it?
 pain. We beat ourselves up for seeming human when we can’t contain ourselves. We feel alone and broken. Men and women both report feelings of shame after crying at work, and yet according to a widely cited 2018 survey conducted by Accountemps, almost 50 percent of people say they’ve shed a tear at work.
16
 Add bouts of anger, frustration, elation, and hurt into the mix and of course we’re all guilty of having emotions at our place of employ. We are wasting precious energy fighting them. Working while imperturbable is a test we’re doomed to fail, and yet we keep trying to nail the test out of habit. Would you report feelings of shame if you were surveyed? Shame and permission are pretty much opposites. And shame keeps all of us out of power.


Two, if we check our “human side” at the door we will be boring, joyless public speakers. Or panelists, presenters, meeting participants, whatever. And we will continue to feel crappy in the moments that 
could
 be the defining events of a self-actualized life. We will miss the chance to feel alive and let our audience feel alive too. We will miss the chance to have 
duende,
 which is a lush, classic Spanish concept that I bet we’ve each felt when watching an incredible speaker: it’s a mysterious force, a realness that makes the room hum, a presence that 
cannot be denied. Spanish poet Federico García Lorca famously gave a speech on 
duende
 in which he drew from examples of breathtaking performances he’d seen, dancers and musicians, as well as poets and speakers, remembering, “I heard an old maestro of the guitar say: ‘The 
duende
 is not in the throat: the 
duende
 surges up, inside, from the soles of the feet.’”
17
 This 
duende
 might be what we call bringin’ it. It’s the opposite of boring and joyless—and it’s available to each of us. But it does require that we let ourselves feel the music in our soul, in front of others.


And three, the science is on the side of emotion. Take this 2017 article in 
Frontiers in Psychology,
 focusing on the rise of online learning. It includes a synthesis of recent findings, stating, “Numerous studies have reported that human cognitive processes are affected by emotions, including attention, learning and memory, reasoning, and problem-solving. These factors are critical in educational domains because when students face such difficulties, it defeats the purpose of schooling and can potentially render it meaningless.”
18
 
Defeats the purpose. Render it meaningless.
 Is this how we want our audiences to feel? This article references 176 different academic papers that explore just how much the brain lights up when we’re presented with facts laced with feelings, offering examples like “activation of the amygdala during the encoding of emotionally arousing information (both pleasant/unpleasant) has been reported that correlates with subsequent recall.” In other words, without an emotional component, no one will remember what you said.


Here are tools to help you more readily tap into your emotional life and give yourself permission to express it—not just 
for the sake of your emotions (though it does feel fantastic to give up on fearing them) but for the sake of your message and your audience. Do the work because it will make you feel less alone, it will make you feel alive, and your message will stick.


The best way to get in touch with your emotions is to get in touch with your body. Either move it (as my favorite mug says, “When in doubt, dance it out”) or center it. The main difference when I work with actors and with nonactors is that a big portion of the session with nonactors is spent getting them loose enough in body and mind that they can surprise themselves and grow and change. Actors just have more practice. You might find it hard to give yourself permission to play, to act like a weirdo and not judge yourself for it, to give up trying to control everything, to be nothing but heart. It’s hard for the entirely understandable reasons discussed in this chapter. And yet, the good stuff happens on the other side.


Here’s a start: Lori Snyder, author and founder of the Writers Happiness Movement, contributed the guided meditation below. Try recording it yourself on your phone (more slowly than you think, taking a few extra breaths especially when you see the // symbol) and then find a comfortable position seated or lying down, press Play and close your eyes. If you’re new to meditation or resisting it, this is for you.




(BEGIN RECORDING HERE)


Take the first few moments to settle in, to arrive.
19
 // Next, take a long, deep inhale, full and round. Then open the 
mouth and sigh it out. // Soften the shoulders. // Smooth out the forehead. // Relax the jaw.


Now, draw awareness to the truest part of you, the part that is most 
you
. This is the part that exists separate from the labels you use to describe yourself or that others have given you, separate from any roles you play in your life, separate from any job titles. // It’s the part where all art and love and generosity come from, and it’s what we access when we say whatever it is we need to say in the way we mean to say it. // This part of ourselves is often locked away, buried beneath layers of protection. So if it’s not making itself known right now, that’s okay. It’s still there, even if you don’t feel it.


If you can feel that truest part of you, breathe into it. Let it grow, like you’re fanning the flames with your breath. // If you can’t feel it today, use your imagination as to how it 
might
 feel to connect with that part of yourself. Breathe into that. Notice how it feels in the body.


See if you can be here a few minutes. // When you’re ready, take one more deep breath.


And then, right here in this moment—without having to change anything else about the rest of your life—take off the armor. Set it off to the side.


Take off the mask. Set 
that
 off to the side. //


Now take off the mask behind the mask. Set it off to the side too. //


And lastly, lay down any shield you have been carrying. And see if you can just be here: Undefended. Unabashed. Unprotected.


When we set down the shield, take off the armor, remove the masks—we speak only truth.


And when we speak only truth,


we become exactly what the world needs. //


When you are ready to finish,


please take your deepest breath in and out. And then move slowly into the rest of your day,


Leaving the armor


and the masks


and the shield


on the ground behind you.




From this place, once you’ve opened your eyes and let them adjust, envision speaking to a group of people that perhaps you’re actually going to speak to soon, or that you present to regularly. Breathe as you look around the room in your mind’s eye. Feel what it feels like to be armorless. Say, “Hi.” Say, “I’m glad I get to talk about something I care about.” Notice if you tighten in your belly or chest or throat and get curious about it. Feel your feelings. Send some extra love to those areas of your body that yearn to clamp back down and tell yourself you’re safe.


As you leave the house, join a meeting, deal with your boss, notice when you put your armor back on and ask yourself if you need to. Sometimes we do. But sometimes it’s just a habit, and the holes in the armor are always more interesting than the armor itself.


Here’s another tool: At this point, it’ll come as no surprise that although our throats are meant to be a relatively passive passage for our breath and our sound … it doesn’t always work out that way. General anxiety or the specific fear that our emotions will get us in trouble cause most of us to tighten the muscles, so emotions won’t bubble up. Those throat muscles are fantastic at stifling us so we don’t come across as 
too much
—and habitually overusing them undermines our attempts to figure out what 
just right
 might be. We’ve all witnessed panels or presentations where the speaker on the dais barely resembles a living, breathing human being. It’s possible to show up with a voice that’s so constricted by throat tension, and a mindset so governed by the sense that caring is uncool, that we don’t really show up at all.


We’re stopping that routine right here and now.


Try this trick for relaxing the throat and see what it loosens up: place the tip of your thumb behind your top front teeth and pull hard while taking in a deep belly breath. You’ll feel the whole back of your neck and the spot between your shoulder blades engage and then release when you stop pulling. This movement puts your entire skull back into alignment with your spine. Actually, speech pathologists say it puts your entire 
body
 back into alignment. They call it “anchoring.” And I’d like to point out, it also has the benefit of looking quite subtle; I definitely pull it off at parties mid-conversation, if I can tell 
my throat muscles are working overtime to get heard over the din. Try it now, perhaps with your eyes closed, and see if you can feel that passive passageway open up.


Here’s another one: in a quiet space away from others, take a good breath, open your mouth, and slowly make the sound of a gate creaking open (also known as vocal fry). Take a breath and try again. It might require some experimentation to figure out just how little energy you need to use to get the cords to make this sound. Go for three slow breaths out on this creak, sounding sooooo chill, and then close your mouth and hum from high to low a few times before speaking again. This exercise loosens your cords and resets them if they’ve gotten tense either from speaking in a way that’s hard on them (more in the next chapter on what I mean) or from using them to curb your emotions.


Here are some suggestions of a few new lines to whisper to yourself, to add to your inner dialogue and swap out old, stale ones. First, think of something you talk about a lot. Maybe it’s welcoming everyone into a space, or maybe it’s more specific: a line from a pitch or the way you often describe what you do. Maybe it’s why you started your company or why you 
want
 to. Maybe it’s a call to action, asking your audience to sign up for your newsletter or follow you on social media.


Alone in a room, practice saying it with this one shift: loop it through the heart. Imagine that the words don’t just come up through your throat and out your mouth, but that they detour through your heart before they emerge. And that they come out with some residue from your heart—whatever that means to you. How does that feel? Imagine someone in front of you and say it to them. After experimenting with this a bit on your own, I dare you to try this with people you’re comfort
able with, and then with those you’re not. No one needs to know, but you will.


As famed voice teacher Kristin Linklater said, “Words have become largely utilitarian in everyday life and are conditioned to run from the speech cortex straight to the mouth. They seldom pick up an emotional charge except under extreme provocation,”
20
 like rage, grief, or joy. But we don’t need such extreme provocation to avoid the pitfalls of utilitarian speech. We can activate our words simply by remembering to bring our hearts along in our communication.


This “loop it through the heart” reminder is a way to practice saying something that matters 
like it matters,
 as well as like it doesn’t. Indeed, the inverse is useful to explore too: again, alone in a room, try saying “I love what I do because ___” and let it cost you absolutely nothing. Get familiar with the ways that you signal you’re excited about something and that you’re not. If you work in the service industry—or have a long history as a people-pleaser—notice, too, how you fake it. This is your chance to start matching your insides to your outsides.


An acting teacher I recommend to everyone in Los Angeles named Jen Krater first introduced me to the idea of looping it through the heart over a decade ago, and I’ve found it applicable to nearly every scenario imaginable for both my own life and my clients’. It might make you feel things, but I encourage you to stay there, unapologetically. Don’t forget you’re practicing what it is to believe that feeling things is good.


And here’s an extra gem from Jen: often when an actor would be performing in front of her class and they’d reach the part in the script where they were gearing up to ask a big question or deliver big news, Jen would gently whisper from the 
sidelines, “Get in trouble.” And inevitably the actor would transform in front of our eyes. The moment would crackle.


“Get in trouble” is the nudge to be just a bit more daring, to take the gamble, to reveal your heart. I offer this to you. When you feel a scary moment coming up—the big ask, the big call to action, the chance to shrink or expand to match the moment—gently whisper to yourself, “Get in trouble.” If you feel yourself bailing, “get in trouble.” If you’re wasting precious energy worrying that you’ll get in trouble, “get in trouble.” Just a little.


Maybe this private exchange with yourself results in a twinkle in your eye you didn’t have a moment ago. Maybe it means you surprise yourself and speak with more vulnerability, more 
duende,
 more joy. Trust that the gamble will pay off. And then trust it some more. By the way, I think this is probably the original intention of that old cliché about picturing the audience naked: when you’ve got a little mischievous secret, it can distract your brain into accidentally having fun.


Here’s another simple visualization. Mouths are what we most associate with speech. But imagine now that your mouth actually only accounts for one of three sources of your vocal energy. Imagine that your torso is a massive trident or pitchfork, and that a second, equally mighty prong juts out of your solar plexus and a third out of your gut. Imagine your vocal energy coming out of all three spots simultaneously. Try talking like 
that
.


Some say, open your mouth and your heart at the same time; I say, what if you bring your gut, and all its juicy emotional content, with you too? Your belly is “all heartache and 
ambition. Fires and tidal waves,”
21
 says poet Kate Baer. Give us that.


I’ve found when I introduce this trident image to clients, they stand taller. Inevitably you’ll bring more of yourself along when you include your heart and gut wisdom, but also, on a literal level it helps keep your spine strong—rather than allowing your shoulders to hunch or your chin to angle out. And when your spine is strong, your body is in alignment and you’re more likely to say what you mean and mean what you say. (Bonus: You can visualize this as the Care Bear Stare instead of a trident, except with three rainbow vectors. If you’re an ’80s baby, I’ve got you.)


And finally, try a mindset visualization. Dr. Brackett pointed out that it’s usually the person with more power in a scenario who’s allowed more latitude to show emotion—and you’ve probably seen this play out. But there’s also an intriguing way you can gain more power pretty instantaneously. Look, there’s no substitute for “social power,” as Dr. Amy Cuddy calls it in her book 
Presence,
 the kind of power we might gain by having “access to assets that others need—food, shelter, money, tools, information, status, attention, affection.”
1
 There’s no substitute for being the most dominant person in the room, or accidentally being born into a privileged position. But there are other kinds of power we can access from where we are. Dr. Cuddy calls this second category “personal power.” And it’s more about our inner resources than our outer ones; it’s about our hard-earned skills, our values, what we know and love about ourselves, and what makes us bold. If social power is power 
over,
 this is power 
to
. As Dr. Cuddy points out, “In an ideal world, our feeling of personal power would be unassailable. In 
reality, it’s apt to fluctuate, especially when the world plays rough with us.”
23


But you can 
generate
 personal power just by performing a quick thought experiment. You can prime yourself for power by thinking of previous occasions when you felt great. I use this trick all the time, and it’s kind of magic: it immediately makes me feel more free, more expansive, and more confident that I can be emotionally available without penalty.


Recall a moment you felt personal power, a moment when you were valued or celebrated or seen. Maybe it was a time when you had agency and audacity and swagger and caught yourself acting like the biggest and best version of you. Maybe it was at home, or with friends, during a high-stakes work event, or even a regular meeting where you suddenly shone. Write a few of these down, and as you think back on them, let yourself remember with your whole body.


According to social psychologists, by merely reflecting on a moment of personal power you will change your whole psychological state. Bring a good power memory to mind and you’ll be primed for the next one—and this is a huge deal because study upon study has shown that when we feel powerless, our thoughts are impaired in all kinds of ways, our ability to perform even simple tasks diminishes considerably, and we become self-absorbed and likely to ruminate later. But when we feel powerful, the opposite happens. We can nudge ourselves in the right direction with just a little recall.


As with everything, context matters. And who each of us is and what each of us wants out of an opportunity matter too. There is no one-size-fits-all approach to bringing more emotion into your professional life. Some rooms don’t want your authentic 
self, and that puts you, like it put Petra, in a difficult position. In her case, she left. After soul-searching (a process that included getting certified as a life coach and taking at least one trip to Burning Man), she abandoned the finance world altogether and started her own life coaching business—and now, years on, she’s merged her earlier passion for the markets with her interest in living an aligned life, and she coaches clients on ethical investing. She was unwilling to hide that she cared any longer and quit trying to live by that boss’s creed. Now she cares for a living.


As visionary business leader and Columbia Business School professor Hitendra Wadhwa put it, “Today, the business world is on fire. Corporate leaders are witnessing a growing hunger, from inside their organizations and outside, for the workplace to reflect the right values—values such as inclusion, empathy, autonomy and service to humanity.”
24
 You are not alone. And no matter the room, you can always interrogate, feel, find, and redraw the line between responsible and radical for yourself. You can always ask yourself, How armorless can I be? How much more emotionally honest can I be without putting myself in a position that feels unsafe? Perhaps you can reveal that your frustration has turned to anger, or that your disappointment is really grief. Perhaps you can reveal yourself, or at least begin.


As Ilyse Hogue put it on my podcast, the powers that be who are fighting for the status quo and resisting change reinforce a style of speaking publicly, and showing up publicly, where they repress their emotional needs. I think of former vice president Mike Pence during the 2020 vice presidential debate with Kamala Harris—where the fly stole the show simply by being realer than the head it landed on. The powers that 
be have codified the “ideal worker” and defined the word “professional,” ensuring that both describe someone who’s more machine than human. As bell hooks wrote, “The first act of violence that patriarchy demands of males is not violence toward women. Instead, patriarchy demands of all males that they engage in acts of psychic self-mutilation, that they kill off the emotional parts of themselves. If an individual is not successful in emotionally crippling himself, he can count on patriarchal men to enact rituals of power that will assault his self-esteem.”
25
 I think of the women who first trickled into male-dominated industries, desperate to be taken seriously, looking around to glean the rules of play in lieu of adequate mentorship—and crippling themselves to fit in. I think of them mentoring the next generation of women, reinforcing what worked for them, enshrining their hobble.


Former Fox News political commentator Megyn Kelly took to Twitter after that vice presidential debate to mock the freedom with which Kamala Harris displayed her emotional responses to Mike Pence’s interruptions and false statements. Kelly chided her, “Take it like a woman. Don’t make faces.”
26
 Madeleine Albright, the first female U.S. secretary of state, wrote in her autobiography about her own experience learning to take it like a woman, as it were. “Many of my colleagues made me feel that I was overly emotional,”
27
 she wrote, “and I worked hard to get over that. In time, I learned to keep my voice flat and unemotional when I talked about issues I considered important.” Secretary Albright’s quote sounds like success. It captures some prevailing conventional wisdom: flat is better than topographical variety. Unemotional is better than emotional. A steady voice gets the job done.


But Ilyse went on to say, “Our ability to tap deep into our emotions to channel a different future—that is our superpower. We should always use it.”
28
 From this perspective, we can reconsider Secretary Albright’s quote. For one thing, she was describing a transformation she enacted thirty years ago. For another, her colleagues were by default men and her job was international diplomacy, for which a poker face and a poker voice might be a career-specific boon. To hear her quote out of context, it’s all too easy to take the wrong lesson, but her wisdom may not be wise for you.


As climate journalist and Twitter rabble-rouser David Roberts wrote, responding to Megyn Kelly’s tweet, “Embracing your full humanity, in public, takes way more gonads than being yet another third-rate John Wayne rip-off, unable to identify, process, or articulate your emotions. It’s a kind of strength & courage that emerge out of, rather than deny, being a whole-ass person.”
29
 Indeed. I’m glad Secretary Albright found an approach that worked for her. But I don’t want to live in a world where it’s our best bet.


Fortunately, I don’t think we do. But it’s up to us to reclaim our emotions and allow our voices their full range of expression. Because—and maybe you already knew this all along, deep down—when the stakes are high, when you’re presenting your work or you’re pitching what you believe in, you must bring your heart.


And when you’ve got any social power at all, you must be vigilant in refusing to reinforce the old stoicism story so that others can practice bringing their hearts too. Every chance you get to make choices about who to work with and how, intentionally nurture spaces where enthusiasm can flourish and where people are free to speak emotionally without penalty. 
It’s your chance to respect your emotions and those of everybody you know and 
then
 redefine what “professional legitimacy” looks and sounds like from there. Redefine who gets to be fully human and who gets to sound like it. Toni Morrison once said, “As you enter positions of trust and power, dream a little before you think.”
30
 Put down your shield and your armor and dream.

















4


Pitch




and there was a new voice
 which you slowly recognized as your own,
 that kept you company


—MARY OLIVER
, “The Journey”
1




Maybe, when you’re uncomfortable, you go monotone. Maybe a voice inside your head warns, “Stay steady,” and you press on your vocal cords to make sure nothing extra comes out. I heard myself do it when I first began recording my podcast. I was sitting in an oversized swivel chair at a corporate conference table, speaking into a very expensive microphone at the iHeartRadio offices, opposite a guest who intimidated the hell out of me. I swallowed and attempted to ignore my wild heartbeat. I spoke and my voice came out steady—and totally foreign.


In theory, I knew better than to try to hide behind some fake “podcast voice.” And yet, on my maiden voyage at the mic, it’s as though a little generic monster in my head piped up to try to save me from myself. 
Hello, Samara, I’ve come to inform you that a voice devoid of character would be best here. No one wants the real you.
 And right away my defense mechanisms busted in to protect me, pushing down on my cords, constrict
ing my full range of expression, and rendering me a whole lot more generic. The producers couldn’t tell, but I sure could.


Vocal hiding and vocal freedom hinge on whether we feel safe, which is usually about whether we feel we have something to prove. That feeling—that others are judging us, doubting us—can suck the joy out of our pursuits and the character out of our voice. Clearly, I felt like I had something to prove, and hadn’t properly prepared myself to give that notion a hug and send it on its way—and the generic monster with it. It was my first time “going public,” and you could hear it in my voice.


Think about when you’ve spoken in a room where you had the impression you were being evaluated, or where you explicitly were—a job interview, a pitch, a competitive anything. These are the times that we must commit the fiercest to bringing permission along for the ride; otherwise, those imagined (or real) squinting eyes and judgy ears sizing us up will restrict us from expressing ourselves with all the vocal dynamics we have at our disposal. Which is a shame, because fear-based communication almost never elicits the results we want. The impulse is understandable; it’s safer to hide. But it’s not fun and not sustainable and likely won’t get us the gig or the audience we want—an audience that falls in love with us because we have shown them the truth of who we are and how we sound. We must save ourselves from this impulse to save us from ourselves.


How, you ask? The answer is pitch. Pitch is destiny when we speak. The inflections up and down the scale that this gorgeous vocal apparatus of ours has developed over thousands of years tell the whole story of whether we give in to the doubts. Simply put: when we’re on a roll, we broaden our pitch; when we get scared, we flatten it. That’s monotone. Our voice hides 
in our throat, and without the tools and bravery to let it out, we abandon the natural high and low notes we’d hit if we were hanging with our favorite people, the ones around whom we feel like we have nothing to prove.


The results are often disturbingly gendered; these are gross stereotypes, and if they don’t fit you, 
good
. And if you’re actively challenging the gender binary or exploring how to love your voice while in transition, I’ve got some resources in the notes section for this chapter.
2
 But here goes the crude version that’s all too common: For many women, when we’re uncomfortable, we tend toward “nice.” Vocally, this means we’ll speak at a higher pitch and limit how much range we use once we’re up there, as if to say, 
I’m so unintimidating, don’t worry about me.
 If you’ve ever been a server or relied on tips to make your rent, you’re probably quite familiar with this mode of speech. I call it the Starbucks Voice because it’s as though we’ve internalized the sound that service industry employees adopt in order to signal they have no needs of their own and exist only for yours. (“Hi, what can I get for you?” becomes “Hi, I think I might have an idea for a strategy if you guys want …?”) We are 
so
 nice.


Men, on the other hand, stereotypically tend toward “cool.” They go down in pitch when they’re uncomfortable and limit how much range they use as well, as if to say, 
Oh, hey, no worries, it’s all good, bro. I’m cool.
 I call it the Superhero Voice because it’s as though men have all gotten the memo that, like Batman, it’s important to be fazed by <Superhero Voice> 
nothing
. Obviously, it’s depressing as hell to consider that in stressful scenarios women sound like they’re trapped in the niceties of the customer service industry and men default to superheroes, but here we are.


As I lament this habit, I also appreciate its value, because as a means of getting what we want in certain situations, “nice” is the perfect lubricant. In fact, it’s an adaptive strategy found throughout the entire animal kingdom. Body language and the pitch of the voice play a critical role in animals’ performance of big and scary, or small and tender, although for them it’s below the level of conscious thought (perhaps for many of you as well, until now). Animals that are aggressively trying to repel a predator or compete for attention stand tall, raise the hairs on their body to appear bigger, and growl at their lowest pitch. It’s a size bluff—no matter how big they are, now they seem bigger. And likewise, if those same animals are romancing a partner or speaking to a baby, they’ll flatten their hairs (or their ears or their whole body) into a submissive stance and produce a high-pitched whine or coo to appear smaller and less intimidating. Animals play nice too.


But it turns out humans may well be the 
only
 animal that has the ability to voluntarily control our pitch patterns. We have this incredible prefrontal cortex that’s bigger and more complex than even other primates’, and it’s evolved to help us with executive functions like planning our cognitive and social behavior and expressing our personality. As Dr. Marc Dingman, the author of 
Your Brain, Explained,
 says, “The prefrontal cortex contributes a great deal to making us who we are as individuals.”
1
 Patients with brain damage in that region, he says, make clear that “if you took away the prefrontal cortex we would be ruled by our desires and impulses, lacking an ability to plan for the future or think about the consequences of our actions.” This brain region is also responsible for language and paralanguage, a term for all of our nonverbal communication, like pitch. And inside this region is a smaller area responsible 
for manipulating the voice box specifically, with the extravagant name bilateral dorsal laryngeal motor cortex. Pitch lives there.


According to Dr. Edward Chang, a neurosurgeon at the University of California–San Francisco whose team has run pioneering experiments on this bit of magnificent brain engineering, we differ from other primates in that we can manipulate our pitch in order to sing, to suggest intention, and to alter “perception”—in other words, to shape how others perceive us.
4


So yes, we can come across as nice and sometimes it’s our best bet to smooth over a hostile or uncomfortable situation. But this lubricant is a size bluff; it’s playing small. And I’m here to help us find alternatives. When we’ve got the chance to propose our big idea, speak of the work closest to our hearts, or offer a new plan, we can and must let 
nice
 morph into something that reflects that we don’t just exist for others. This is the voice, as Mary Oliver says, that we will slowly recognize as our own. And this voice will have fantastic pitch variety.


You know when we naturally exhibit pitch variety? When we’re talking to the kids in our lives. The exaggerated up and down intonation we use when speaking to a baby or a pet is universal across cultures and languages, according to Stanford linguist Dr. Anne Fernald.
5
 In fact, four-year-olds do it when they talk to two-year-olds! And it’s apt to come out of our mouths when we’re speaking to people who are still learning our language no matter what age they are, as well as older people we think may be hard of hearing. The implication is that this slowed-down, swooping speech is a deep-seated instinct we have when we sense a language barrier; it’s a teaching mode. But I think there’s something else provocative here: we 
use this broad range of pitch when we’re comfortably in the power position—when we have nothing to prove.


It’s a revealing exercise to singsong your statements to explore your own range. Try it, with a healthy sense of humor. While you say, “Hi, my name is ____,” go nuts and go big, incorporating fanciful swoops up and down.


But don’t mistake my meaning: the antidote to monotone isn’t to force ourselves to speak with pitch variation, like we’re talking to a baby regardless of context. As an exercise, it can be liberating; as advice for the real world, it’s real bad. It’s just swapping out one extreme for another. It’s still vocal hiding. If you push yourself to use more pitch for the sake of pitch, you’ll sound like “We’ll be back … after these messages,” the cheesy sound bite we heard blaring out of our TVs in the ’80s and ’90s, usually with ascending pitch on “back …” followed by a pregnant pause and a twangy slide back down on “after.” I think of this use of pitch on the airwaves as the vocal equivalent of a meme: repeatable, mockable, and absolutely everywhere. You can hear its legacy in Ryan Seacrest’s “This … is 
American Idol
.” It’s promo-voice, sales-speak, razzle-dazzle. It’s newscasters reading teleprompters with no sense of what they’re saying, only throwing practiced melody on it to approximate human speech. But it’s not natural.


For talking heads this mode was an industry standard they were once obligated to match. But in fact, the industry is changing; a number of news shows that connect with younger audiences now feature pundits who reject that style of speech for something more authentic. I’m thinking of Rachel Maddow, Nicolle Wallace, and Joy Reid covering the election of 2020 like humans, or Trevor Noah, or the journalists at Vice News.


For the rest of us, who may accidentally fall into this pattern of swooping extremes, reenacting this meme after its time has passed, it’s worth it to ask why. Although the original impulse among broadcast voices may have been sensible enough—employ a lot of changing pitch to keep an audience engaged—it strikes me as a bad-faith deal. It’s either disrespecting your listener or disrespecting yourself. It patronizingly assumes your listener is too dumb to follow natural speech, or it painfully assumes you the speaker are not enough as you are, and that you have to do something more in order to sound interesting.


But what’s “interesting” is when we tell the truth. If we’re saying that we’ll be back after these messages, we could just … say it. No more, no less. On the podcast 
How to Own the Room,
 Sarah Hurwitz, the Obamas’ speechwriter, memorably put the kibosh on jargony language like “leveraging verticals” or “hardworking middle-class Americans” by pointing out, “If you wouldn’t say it to one person, don’t say it to many people.” I think the singsong host voice is the pitch equivalent to that sentiment. If you wouldn’t speak that way to a real grown-up who’s right in front of you and whom you respect, it won’t do much good to speak that way on a larger scale.


The alternative to telling the truth isn’t lying, per se. But it is vocal hiding—which is actually another function of our highly evolved brain. We can control our vocalizations to cover whatever we want, but, let it be known, it doesn’t always work. There’s a fascinating explanation for why not: in what biologist Richard Dawkins and zoologist John Krebs famously called an evolutionary arms race, they found that over multiple generations predators’ skills improve (in other words, the skilled ones make babies and pass along their knack for the kill), but the skills of their 
prey
 improve over time as well (in other words, 
the ones who get away … get away and then make babies).
6
 If the arms race is really heating up, then these animal foes get better and better at about the same rate—so the results cancel each other out. Here’s our version: we humans have an incredible capacity for vocal deception. Go monotone, go singsong, hide, hide, hide. But you know who’s evolved to have an equally incredible capacity to pick up on teensy deceptions in the voice? Also us. Within just a few words we can detect distress in a friend who’s trying to pretend everything’s fine, a date who’s holding back, a boss who’s buttering us up, or our own voice when we try to sound powerful but don’t really buy it. We’re uniquely adapted to lie, but we’re uniquely adapted to recognize lying as well.


So how do we use pitch variation the “right” amount—meaning the amount that’s not about hiding but about revealing ourselves—even when we’re way out of our comfort zone and our body is going nuts? The answer is, we actively create the conditions within ourselves to play with our pitch. We get better at feeling comfortable even outside of our comfort zone, trusting that when we do, our voice will be so much more expressive. This is super doable, and not just according to me. Dr. Christine Runyan is a clinical psychologist and professor at the University of Massachusetts who specializes in the mind-body response to heavy burdens on our nervous system, from PTSD to the pandemic. Speaking to Krista Tippett on her 
On Being
 podcast, Dr. Runyan recommended simple self-care exercises to release hormones and neurotransmitters like oxytocin and dopamine into the body to work as anti-stressors and joy-makers and reset the body to its optimal state. If vocal hiding or vocal freedom hinges on whether we feel safe, then safety is key. Feeling physically comfortable is key. It’s easy to 
think of permission as a mindset, but in this case—maybe in all cases—it’s also a bodyset. We must ease our body into a sense of permission.


I listened to Dr. Runyan speak of basic exercises like lighting a candle or listening to music, which can calm your nervous system so your body can work for you, not against you. And it reminded me of something my mom used to say when I was growing up and feeling down: “You can’t think your way out of a funk; you have to 
do
 your way out.” So here are some suggestions I’ve collected along the way to add to Dr. Runyan’s, simple ways to leverage the body we have for the voice we want. To 
do
 our way out.


None of these strategies are a big time commitment, but all of them will have an outsized effect. (I think of a woman in a workshop I ran who was a pediatric resident battling constant burnout because of the pandemic but also, she admitted, because she was having trouble convincing herself she had “the right to two minutes alone.” You have the right to two minutes alone.) Try these now, but especially just before a speech or an important meeting when you might be feeling some nerves:


Yes, listen to music. But even better, if you’ve got a private space to step into, literally dance to music and get your hips in the game—you know what they say about hips and lying. But seriously, our hips are the receptacles for negative feelings in the body, so wiggling them can lead to a real sense of release. While you’re at it, whether you light a candle or roll on some essential oil, take the time to smell; it sounds trivial, but if we’re smelling scents, we are present in the moment. And breathe, of course, breathe. But alternatively, get out of breath—sprint or do jumping jacks or a quick yoga flow—and your body will release valuable endorphins. Walk in nature or, 
if that’s not available, look at pictures of something wild and free. Give yourself a hug or get a good one from a friend. Feel your feet on the floor, putting your weight in your heels. As Dr. Runyan says, “Fight or flight has a body posture of being on the toes,”
7
 so figure out how you can invest in a different posture.


You could also meditate, and rather than trying to clear the mind, focus on someone you love and how you look at them—or how they look at you. Remember the last time you belly-laughed. Sit with gratitude, or compassion, or sexual arousal, or goodwill. Let someone do something kind for you or do something kind for them; even opening a door for a stranger or making eye contact can release valuable chemicals that give your body a nudge in the right direction. Eat something that tastes incredible, that feels like food equals love. Put lotion on your skin like your own touch is healing. Or put your hand over your heart, caress it a bit, and, as my friend Liz Kimball reminded me recently, close your eyes and say to yourself, “I trust myself.” Or try “I am enough.” Or “I am showing up as myself, to help someone else do the same.” Or simply “I got this.” Even the word “yes” can alter our chemical makeup. Say the word “no”
8
 when you’re in an fMRI, and you’ll see a sudden release of dozens of stress-producing hormones and destructive neurochemicals that instantly interrupt your brain’s normal functioning and impair your sense of logic and language processing, according to Dr. Andrew Newberg and his coauthor, Mark Waldman, who wrote 
Words Can Change Your Brain
. Conversely, repetition of “yes”—or thinking words like “love” or “peace”—triggers a “relaxation response” that reduces psychological distress.


And finally, especially if you’re about to speak and you feel your nervous system going haywire, get curious—as Dr. Runyan says, curiosity rides through our body on a wave of dopamine, since dopamine is all about the pleasure of anticipation, and what is curiosity but the anticipation of learning something new? It’s a double whammy: the act of being curious releases feel-good hormones, and the curious mind will observe an anxious body and gain some perspective or distance from the feeling. I always find it a satisfying bit of rebellion to, in the middle of an attack of nerves, think: 
Huh, this is fascinating. I wonder what this story is and who it serves.


It’s easy to shortchange yourself and skip trying these exercises out, especially if you’ve got a habit of yelling at yourself for getting nervous. Perhaps you can recall a time that you were psyching yourself out by running through worst-case scenarios before an event only to discover that your body was in fight-or-flight mode, so you switched from worrying if you’ll mess up to admonishing yourself to stop freaking out. You can guess how that would appear on an fMRI scan. It’s a massive bummer and a waste of those precious moments before an event. Not only is it cruel to be that mean to ourselves, it also puts an undue burden on “mindset” when our body is right there, willing to help. Try some of the exercises above instead and get that relaxation response flowing. See which work for you; they’re yours. Each has the potential to shift your body into a mode of feeling safe. And when you feel safe, you’re apt to feel looser and freer in your body and mind. And you’re apt to make bigger, bolder choices, including with your pitch. I bet if you start paying attention, you’ll notice that in your private life, at home, at the bar with 
friends, around anyone who adores you and makes you feel safe to be yourself, your pitch is remarkably varied. Now let’s bring her into more spaces.


When I work with women, they are often coming into their own in new ways professionally and reckoning with a voice that isn’t evolving at the same pace. To get your voice to match your ambition, the safety measures above will help, but I want to offer you something else here, since pitch is indeed destiny: a chance to recognize your own voice story, to identify who told you (with words or actions) to be quieter, or louder, or gentler, or more assertive and to consider what happened as a result. What did your voice do? We don’t need to linger, we don’t need to ruminate, but bring some curiosity here too: why might you be speaking at a higher pitch (or sounding flatter or softer or more unintimidating or pushing more) than you would have if you’d, say, grown up on a utopian island with not a whisper of hierarchical power structures or traditional standards of speech? (Meet you there.)


After I launched the podcast, I started getting tons of messages from listeners sharing their voice stories. I received one from a woman named Jasmine who remembers that in seventh grade she overheard another girl saying that Jasmine had an annoying voice, and she never quite shook it. She stopped speaking up in class and talking on the phone, which fundamentally affected her relationships with friends. “Obviously,” she told me, “when I was older, I realized how totally ridiculous it was that I internalized this offhand comment.” But the damage was done.


I got one from a listener named Natalie whose high school English teacher told her, “Sometimes I think you’re just 
trying
 
to sound stupid,” and years later she still wonders if that’s how she comes across every time she opens her mouth. I’ve heard more variations on this story than I can count. From a friend who was told in second grade that she must be speaking with that high voice “to impress the boys.” From a listener who tried to heed her boss’s advice to have a “smaller footprint” at work because she was apparently too much—and remembers him suggesting she be more like a coworker who, she wrote to me, “was basically a mouse. She was a woman who never spoke.” From my client Sashka, who was keenly aware that her mom was shunned from the PTA groups with whispers that she was “too much,” “too weird,” “too opinionated”—and what Sashka took from that, about how to be an acceptable woman.


These sometimes stealthy, sometimes overt comments about our voice that can seem to be indictments against our accent, race, gender, sexual orientation, or perceived aggressiveness or overconfidence become views that we integrate into our sense of self. My first year of college I got cast as an angry old woman in an over-the-top farce of a play. Though I tried to approach the role with pathos and honesty, the local town paper sent a reviewer, and the middle-aged white guy wrote that my “shrill performance crossed the line from farcical to irritating.” I was eighteen years old, discovering what “angry” and “old” and “woman” sounded like to some ears. I didn’t have to look that quote up; it lives in me.


And it’s the actor who left me a voicemail in a squeaky voice, relaying that she had been a child star and now she’s older and going out on auditions to play grown women. In this message she explained that her acting manager had told her, “You need to find your leading-lady voice,” a sound to match this new era 
of her life. But she didn’t know how. I remember the embarrassment I heard through the phone, in this womanly request coming from this girlish voice. But in a sense, she’s all of us, whether or not there’s as wide a gap between our dreams and our reality. We have each constructed a voice from all these comments and messages, adjusted ourselves accordingly, and have each likely been rewarded for it—perhaps even paid good money for it, as she was. But when we outgrew this voice we’d constructed, when it stopped working in our favor, we had no idea what to do. It may be that your voice story needs a new chapter.


You, me, and this squeaky-voiced actor have a fundamental question to consider as we bend our voice story in a new direction. Is a lower voice the goal? Is its opposite always childish, feminine, “nice,” or <shudder> shrill? After all, we’ve each likely cataloged the accusations of shrill lobbed at women running for office we’ve heard our whole lives. What does that word evoke if not a high pitch? What does its opposite suggest but calm, collected, authoritative? Google “how to sound authoritative” specifically and you’ll see business coach after business coach counseling, “Speak in a low voice.” Seems the best advice to sound like you’re in charge is to sound like a man.


Welcome to the other side of the pitch conversation: we must use pitch 
variation
 if we want to reveal ourselves and express our best ideas as they deserve to be expressed. Range is an indicator that we’re free. But we must clear out the shambles of cultural assumptions around our 
baseline
 pitch if we want true freedom.


To point out the obvious, women’s voices tend to vibrate at 
a higher pitch because of our actual anatomy; our vocal cords are smaller. In general, we speak about an octave higher than men. There’s various data across cultures, but generally the pitch range for men’s voices is about 60–180 Hz and women’s about 160–300 Hz. According to some studies, there’s no overlap at all. And this is actually a huge deal: in nature, the pitch of an animal’s sound correlates to the size of its body, end of story. Little chihuahuas yap; big golden retrievers bark. They each have a bit of range from growl to coo, but their baseline pitch—the middle of their range, the sweet spot—is determined by their size. We instinctively know how big a bird is or how mature a lion is by the frequency of its sound as it hits our ears. And male and female members of those species sound the same. They might learn different calls or instinctively vocalize mating rituals differently, but their voice pitch is not related to their sex, only their size.


Not so with humans. In addition to having more control over our pitch variation than other animals thanks to that big, beautiful prefrontal cortex of ours, we’re also unique in that we get to claim a little animal kingdom anomaly called sexual dimorphism: although we all start out sounding the same as babies, by the time we’re adults, men and women’s bodies produce a noticeably different baseline pitch from each other.


In fact, this voice distinction is so noticeable that far before puberty hits, little kids begin “performing gender” with their pitch. According to linguists Dr. Penelope Eckert and Dr. Sally McConnell-Ginet in 
Language and Gender,
 “At the ages of four to five years, despite their identical vocal apparatus, girls and boys begin to differentiate the fundamental frequency of their speaking voice. Boys tend to round and extend their lips, lengthening the vocal tract, whereas girls tend to spread their 
lips (with smiles, for example), shortening the vocal tract. Girls are raising their pitches, boys lowering theirs.”
9


I learned this particular bonbon years ago and was properly dismayed. But the fact that other animals’ voices 
don’t
 discriminate between the sexes was news to me. When I first read about this, in John Colapinto’s 
This Is the Voice,
 I was struck with … 
why?
 For any woman who’s ever been told “You talk too high,” or “You’ll never be taken seriously with that voice,” indeed for any of us who’ve ever withstood negative feedback because the male voice is the standard and the female voice is the deviation, I had to wonder, what kind of evolutionary BS is this?


The best answer is sexual selection. If we consider that the big drop in men’s voices happens with their surge of testosterone during puberty, we can conclude it has to do with attracting a mate. Like any string instrument, a thicker, longer set of vocal cords produces a deeper sound, so the hypothesis is that women prefer this sound or that it’s associated with good baby-making. And indeed, various studies have borne this out. One such experiment, conducted by researchers at McMaster University in Ontario, Canada, began with “Humans appear to be unique among primates in that sexual dimorphism of adult voice pitch is well beyond what may be explained by height alone”
10
 and went on to find that heterosexual college students of the opposite sex consistently deemed high voices in women and low voices in men the most “attractive.”


Another, at University College London, asked male volunteers to listen to a sample of a woman’s voice that was systematically altered for pitch and asked women to do the same with a man’s vocal sample.
1
 According to the report, results 
showed clearly that male listeners preferred female voices that were higher-pitched, correlating with a smaller body size (and youthful, childbearing potential), while females preferred to hear male voices that were lower-pitched, suggesting larger body size (and hearty sperm). For a society that idealizes big men and small women, it all feels very cliché. Apparently, just as we pick up on the fact that it’ll behoove us to take up as little space as possible, to suck in and diet and shrink, we also raise the pitch of our voices to give off the impression of diminutive stature. The McMaster report suggests “high-pitched women’s voices are perceived as feminine and youthful and flirtatious …. Furthermore, women tend to raise their voice pitch when presented with an attractive man’s face and asked to leave a phone message for him.” Hello, Starbucks Voice.


But if higher-pitched women are hot, then how come the top-ten list of sexiest women’s voices is always weighted toward Scarlett Johansson and Kathleen Turner (of Jessica Rabbit fame), women with throaty, husky, low voices? If all this pitch stuff is about ancient mating rituals, then we’ve got to look at how the voice codes for sexuality and consider how that maps along power lines. After all, we’re probably not just trying to come across as hot; we’re trying to own our lives.


In her book 
Wordslut,
 Amanda Montell considers how to reconcile these listicles of sexy voices with the science, and muses that the low voices of the women on the lists sound like “the voice you wake up with after sleeping next to someone (and maybe doing other stuff). It’s a sign of intimacy. People hear that voice and they picture you in bed.”
12
 Notably, I might add, they don’t picture you holding the attention of a crowd or leading the rebellion. Glorifying sexy bedroom voice seems to 
me a convenient way to re-domesticate women, to push us back out of the public sphere, even when we perform the lower pitches traditionally associated with power.


And yet, speaking low has been a refuge for a lot of us. In the Introduction, I described my brush with vocal nodules the year I turned twenty-four. It was the year I learned that, at some point during my own path from girlhood to womanhood, I had begun to manipulate the pitch of my voice beyond what my anatomy could take. It was not to seem more attractive to men but perhaps to signal its opposite: I’m independent, take me seriously, don’t mess with me. I didn’t entirely know I was doing it, and it was ultimately self-destructive, but it also worked.


Throughout my teens, people thought I was older than I was, although my appearance didn’t suggest anything particularly adult. I sounded assured, competent, in on the joke, and grown-up. As a result, I 
was
 taken seriously, and I 
wasn’t
 messed with. Of course, the luxury of adults treating me with respect can in part be attributed to privileges I didn’t recognize I had at the time: being white, middle-class, and raised in a surprisingly functional, loving household. But I attribute at least part of how adults treated me to the fact that I spoke below my body’s “optimum pitch”—the official term for your voice’s sweet spot.


Margaret Thatcher, the U.K.’s first female prime minister, did the same, famously hiring a vocal coach from the National Theatre in London to help her lower her pitch to sound more authoritative. And it worked. Conventional wisdom is that lower is better, and especially for women, borrowing markers of male leadership is a quick fix for getting taken more seriously. Which must have been going through the mind of Eliza
beth Holmes, the disgraced CEO of Theranos, when she perfected her wunderkind sound. It’s well documented that her strikingly deep voice was a deliberate construct, and her case is the latest high-profile evidence that while sometimes our voice happens to us, sometimes we happen to our voice.


So, let’s happen to our voice. I’m certainly a fan of taking charge of our sound and getting conscious of our habits and our options—but the tool below is meant to ensure that you do so in ways that avoid the harm I caused myself or the joke Ms. Holmes’s voice has become. Ideally, we find the voice that’s right for us, not just another contrivance to replace the last.


Here’s a simple way to find your optimum pitch—the general range of vibrations your own vocal folds want to make independent of outside stimulus: notice the next time you say “mm-hm” in the affirmative, or you can record yourself answering yes-or-no questions if you want to set a friend up to help you, sometimes answering with words and sometimes just with that “mm-hm.” The gentle hum of yes-ness against closed lips is your optimum pitch. If you can trust yourself to “mm-hm” without manipulating it then add on. Open your mouth afterward for a simple “my” on the same breath. “Mm-hm … my.” Match your pitch. If it feels like singing at first, that’s fine. Then try a more complicated phrase. “Mm-hm my name is ___. It’s lovely to meet you.” Does it feel lower than you’re used to speaking, or higher?


For me, it felt much higher. Trying to match my “mm-hm” pitch meant a voice came out of my mouth that I didn’t recognize, and my brain went wild. Barbara McAfee, a voice coach, writes in her book 
Full Voice,
 “When you step beyond that cherished identity, in this case by using your voice in a new way, you’ll likely feel a reflexive ‘uh-oh’ from your ego,”
13
 the job 
of which, she says, is to defend the status quo. That’s what I felt.


Similarly, when I tracked down Barbara Buchanan, my own speech pathologist I worked with when I was twenty-four, she told me that the real challenge with finding your optimum pitch 
isn’t
 finding it, it’s reconciling it to your sense of self. In her experience, these days young women usually come to her because they’re speaking below their optimum pitch, doing the pressed-down monotone thing they associate with masculinity, and thus power. Their number-one resistance is “I don’t want to sound like a little girl,” she tells me over Zoom, throwing her hands up. “So, the options are boring man or flaky little girl? Where are 
you
? You have a voice, you have range, you have 
life
 in you.”


And she assures me that everyone responds as I did when I tried to speak in my optimum pitch for the first time and cringed at the sound. I was experiencing my voice kinesthetically in a different way, she says. “If you’re used to talking from your throat, it feels like pressure and that pressure feels satisfying—it feels normal. If you go up in pitch just a half-step, a step, to speak in your optimum pitch but now you switch to vibrating in your mask [this is what us voice people call your face], it feels different. Our perception is that this is 
really
 different, and everyone is going to know and we’re going to come across like a phony.”


As she’s telling me this, I’m brought back to that room all those years ago, with the fluorescent lights and the metal desk and probably the last tape recorder ever sold before they became obsolete. I remember the physical feeling of terror that I’d be perceived as a phony, which was even worse than the fear of coming across as a ditz. I remember listening to the re
cording of my “mm-hm” and my attempt to match my pitch. I remember that on the inside, the difference felt huge—my own inner ear, plus my assumptions, my stories, my fears, heard a great abyss between low and high. But on the outside, trying to listen back objectively, I noted that the difference between how I had been speaking and how Barbara was asking me to speak sounded almost imperceptible. Literally, the world would not know. But if I was able to do it, my entire life would come back to me.


I had been on “vocal rest” for a month before I started these sessions with Barbara. I had given up the first juicy acting role I’d gotten in drama school, I had withdrawn from socializing, and I attended classes mute and mostly ignored. I had been mugged during that month, by some high school kids who grabbed my bag off me with all my belongings, but I couldn’t yell after them. I opened my mouth to—I don’t know what exactly. Curse them so impressively that they’d be intimidated enough to drop my bag? In any case, I tried. But nothing came out and I stood in the street feeling utterly powerless. But with Barbara’s help, I saw that if I could just get over my ego, I would have a voice again. A new and improved voice—strange to my ear, but like home to my body.


It may be useful to consider the costs and benefits of speaking in your optimum pitch. Does a voice sitting comfortably in its natural register help you get what you want or hurt your cause? After all, Elizabeth Holmes convinced a lot of people to give her power and money until she didn’t. For a while there, it worked.


So I say, by all means, experiment. Lower your pitch to talk to that guy who keeps interrupting you and see if it shuts him 
up. Use your Starbucks Voice with that curmudgeon on the work call because he just might make a big donation to your organization if you sweeten him up, and playing the game in that context isn’t much sacrifice. But when you have the chance to speak as yourself, it’s my hope that you decide the cost-benefit analysis is moot. If speaking too high cuts you off from your sense of power so you’re constantly playacting your gender like a five-year-old, and speaking too low strips your vocal folds, neither is worth it.


Because here’s the bottom line: When you get a good massage or finish a run or come out of corpse pose in yoga, your voice is lower. It just is. The same is true if you were to perform basic speech pathology exercises designed to relax the larynx, like the ones I shared in the previous chapter (the thumb-on-teeth and creaking-gate ones). There’s a correlation between tension and a higher-pitched voice—for both men and women. Adrenaline, which often courses through us when we’re about to present publicly, tightens our vocal cords unless we help ourselves feel safe. Lying does, too, by the way. I was curious if we go up in pitch when we lie—a hunch I had from playing with my kid, and realizing that if he says, “No, pretend you don’t know where I am,” I instinctively raise my pitch to express faux-concern. “Uh-oh! I don’t know where you are!” And it turns out there are studies that provide evidence of an association between elevated pitch and false statements, in more sophisticated adult conversations. Anger or responding to someone in disagreement raises our pitch too. As does sensing that we’re in a relatively low-power position; studies like one at the University of Stirling, Scotland, show that “regardless of self-perceived social status, people tend to talk to high status individuals using a higher pitch.”
14


The common denominator in all these examples is that we’re not in a relaxed state. Excitement also raises the pitch of our voice, by the way. And you know I’m going to say nothing’s wrong with that—just don’t get stuck up there. Let each one of these impulses affect your voice, of course, because this isn’t about trying to inhibit this beautiful and versatile apparatus of ours from expressing all the dynamics available. But then—then!—wend your way back to your baseline. Reinvest in your sweet spot. Trust that you’ll have power not by sounding like a little girl or a boring man but by sounding like yourself, on purpose. If you feel yourself straining from topping or bottoming out, it’s possible to recover in the moment, even up on a stage, even at the mic. Take a breath. Take a sip of water. You can even give yourself a little “mm-hm”—it’s subtle and no one will know what you’re doing, except us.


I recently got a different kind of note, a direct message from a woman who had participated in a workshop with me. She told me that for the first time in fifteen years of conducting bicoastal live TV interviews for her job, she decided not to purposely lower her voice. She wrote, “I felt relieved. I just warmed up my voice and kept it hydrated and decided to let it go. It was cathartic.”


I dream of a day when that’s the new sound of power. No more of this Thatcher-esque bluffing and no more reinforcing old stereotypes by performing our gender. Maybe trans folks won’t feel obligated to conform to a vocal performance either—or rather, maybe cis-gendered folks won’t feel the need to enforce vocal gender performance in trans folks before we accept or protect them as fellow humans. Heck, maybe men will feel safe enough to find their optimum pitch too, and we’ll all be free. In fact, it turns out that as we get older, our voice 
pitches begin to converge anyway: men in their later years produce less testosterone and their vocal cords get thinner and their sound reedier, while women, thanks to the rush of estrogen during menopause, end up with longer, thicker cords and a lower voice. This sexual dimorphism folds back on itself, packs up, and slips away.


But in the meantime, the trick is to practice finding our own optimum pitch and give our egos a hug if they revolt. And the other trick is to question assumptions about pitch and power as they come up in ourselves or in society at large—and listen closely to the role models who represent a new sound of power. When then-bartender and candidate for United States Congress Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez came through Los Angeles in the summer of 2018, after her momentous primary win but before the general election, I grabbed a ticket to hear her speak at a sweaty church in Koreatown, sensing she was someone I should keep an eye on, or an ear. While I inched along city streets blasting the air-conditioning in my car, I called my mom and told her where I was going. She exclaimed, “Oh good, she needs you!”


Oh God, I thought. My mom’s my biggest fan and she meant well. “Mom, I think she’s doing just fine without me.”


“No, no,” she pushed back. “That voice. I can’t take her seriously with that voice.” My mother is a second-wave feminist, the kind who got a Fulbright scholarship and went to law school and kept her last name when she married. But my mother couldn’t take her seriously with 
that voice
. I knew what she meant, of course. AOC’s voice is a bit nasal. A bit higher-pitched than we’re used to hearing from elected officials. She sounds distinctly Millennial and distinctly female and like she 
figured out how to make a lot of tips behind the bar (I don’t say this to be flip; we inevitably pick up valuable vocal skills from the rooms we’ve mastered). She sounds like where she’s from and who she is. She sounds like she has no interest in saving herself from herself.


“Or maybe,” I responded, feeling a burst of fire that would go on to spark my podcast and this book, “maybe, she’s teaching us what getting taken seriously might sound like.”


After all, it is up to us, as the listening public as well as the speaking public, what we take seriously. It’s up to us whom we give authority, and it should be based on merit more than how we sound. This is totally obvious, of course, but in the real world the equation is complicated by implicit biases born of traditions and industries and policies meant to keep those once powerful, still powerful. My mom is not the bad guy in this story; most of us could stand to take a flamethrower to our preconceptions. Here’s your chance to start.


During the summer of 2018 I also met the man who coached Hillary Clinton for her televised debates two years prior, a man who gets brought in to coach female candidates tapped by leading U.S. organizations dedicated to preparing women to run for office. I was thrilled to nab a date with this top political communication coach and posed a question to him as we were walking along a muggy street near the Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C., where I’d just seen the Obamas’ official portraits. “Do you think the paradigm is shifting,” I asked him, trying to sound detached, “around how women in politics can sound? Is it no longer a given that the woman who sounds the most like a man wins?”


He took in a long breath and narrowed his eyes.


“Huh,” he finally responded. Like it was an entirely new thought. Like it was something he’d simply never considered, or never had to. And that was that. I realized, suddenly, that I had been positioning myself on the outside looking in. I was newer to this communication coaching work than he was, after all. I realized, suddenly, that I’d been asking the wrong question—that I didn’t need to ask a question at all. AOC and RuPaul and Chanel Miller and Liz Plank and Greta Thunberg and Meghan Markle all speaking in their own voice, and us—we are the answer.


The solution to sounding powerful simply cannot be to artificially lower our baseline pitch, to act as an extension of the hierarchical system that says high voices belong to small, cute things and low voices belong to power. The solution is to reject that. Our destiny is to find our own best voice for our own body and then teach the world 
that’s
 what power sounds like.

















5


Tone




Gather all your parts. Leave nothing behind.


—JENNIFER ARMBRUST
,
 
Proposals for the Feminine Economy
1




At the start of quarantine, our little dog Moxie was suddenly my kid’s only companion. The high-energy four-year-old kept trying to pick the dog up, move her body, or get her to sit by whining “come onnnnnn” or pushing her backside down. It was rough. One day, when Moxie was getting particularly aggrieved at his advances, and I was getting particularly concerned because even little dogs will bite if threatened, I said, “My love, you can’t control others. You can only convince them.” He looked at me—eyes bright—and using his most determined voice, he said with optimism, “Moxie … sit!” 
And she sat.
 I thought back on all the times I had told my kid to use his “strong voice” when he would get whiny with me. But the dog taught him the lesson better than I ever could: tone of voice matters.


We can’t control others, but we can control our tone of voice in order to convince others. This does not mean that manipulating our tone is 
manipulative.
 It means that becoming aware of our tone, and aware of our tonal options, has enor
mous practical value for us and for our listeners. Tone is how we sound when we say something—inviting, firm, playful, disaffected, excited, disdaining. Nietzsche reportedly said, “We often refuse to accept an idea merely because the tone of voice in which it has been expressed is unsympathetic to us,”
2
 and Moxie really proved his point.


I realized with amusement, as I watched this transformation between kid and dog, that the impromptu pro tip I had given him is actually the entire basis of civil society. You can’t control others, but you can convince them. It’s how democracy works. It’s how healthy relationships work. And it’s how good public speaking works. So, how 
do
 we use tone to convince others? Well, it turns out, dogs respond to straightforward instruction and uncomplicated love. I dare you to consider that humans aren’t so different.


Of course, yes, we’re more complex and there are entire fields of linguistics and psychology devoted to mapping the nuances of social interactions and a billion books on how to persuade and influence and cajole people for good or for ill. Plus, dogs don’t mind a good sit; what if what you want of your audience is a harder ask? But when you’re preparing to pitch or present and you begin to feel overwhelmed by the audacity of your request, remember tone and remember Moxie. If in those moments you communicate with strength (here’s my big idea, here’s what I’d like you to do) and warmth (and I speak with great love) you’ll be pretty damn convincing.


Nell came to me because she was pitching an app for women to rooms of venture capitalists who were mostly men. Nell’s in her late forties, idealistic, with a background in the nonprofit sector. She’s sunny and eager and had a nagging sense that she was coming across as too “soft” in these 
meetings—that these potential investors were interested in her product but unconvinced about her. It was an existential crisis, she told me. Should she fight to come across as more authoritative, tough, and businesslike, even if it was inauthentic? One of her advisers was pushing her to do so—but the prospect felt icky. And what if she went too far and came across as cold? She was well aware of what’s said of women who get low marks on the likability front.


Clients have told me they’ve been called bulldogs, angry, a bitch, pushy, aggressive, defensive, and 
difficult
 (that one especially gets my heart pounding because it’s so insidious: all over Hollywood it’s whispered to suggest this female director, or this actress, is behaving in ways for which we’d never penalize a man). These insults get thrown about when a woman in any industry attempts to stand up for herself or her ideas, when she dares to say something inconvenient or shake up the status quo, when she’s stretching her leader wings or attempting to find her strong voice.


This is the famed “double bind,” the tension of two seemingly irreconcilable demands: being both authoritative enough to be taken seriously and likable enough to be kept around. It’s a real phenomenon and the source of endless headaches. “How do I shut down this mansplainer?” “How do I stop interrupters?” “How do I get the raise I deserve?” “How do I get the credit I’m due?” The unspoken part of every one of these questions is, 
without sounding like a
 …


But Nell’s crisis got me thinking. No matter who we are or what outdated power structures we’re up against, there are always two parts to communication: what we have to say, and how we have to say it so people can hear us. Those of us who don’t look or sound like traditional power may need to work 
harder on that second part than someone else does, and that is unfair. Find friends and allies and primal scream when you must—I do.


But the fact that each of us must package our thoughts for our specific listener is actually universal. It’s what happens when any of us asks our partner for a favor. It’s what happens when we talk to a friend about a prickly subject or call someone out (or in) on their biases. It’s what happens at the office and outside of it. It’s what happens across cultures and inside our own home. It’s certainly what happens in high-stakes rooms and on big stages. That we can’t just spew our thoughts but must filter them for the people around us is the cost of true connection. It’s the cost of living in a civil society. It’s the cost of getting what we want. The question isn’t “Why do we have to jump through these hoops?” That’s just being a human around other humans. The question is “How do we do it well and with great joy?”


The answer is all about tone. The double bind is about tone. And the best way to untie it, light the patriarchy on fire, and lead the world out of its ashes is tone too. Yes, I sound dramatic, but I mean it. I want you to feel the power that comes from finding your authority voice and being authentically you 
at the same time.


According to Merriam-Webster, tone is the “style or manner of expression in speaking or writing.” Which is to say, it’s a lot of things. “Tone” captures the overall feeling of a speech or a meeting or an event. In terms of a book or a movie, does it make an audience laugh or cry or sweat or relax? Those reactions are determined by tone as much as by content. And tone is also the word we sometimes use to describe the ineffable quality of someone’s voice. It’s the timbre, which is mostly due 
to the size of the speaker’s vocal cords, their age, and their health or hard living. French philosopher Roland Barthes wrote about the “grain”
3
 of the voice, meaning the unique 
us-ness
 in our sound that evades description. That “grain” is the reason we can recognize someone by their voice, just like we recognize their face.


And tone is the word for the small shifts in shade and feeling we give words or phrases every time we speak. Think about playing the instrument that is your voice: tone isn’t pitch (notes up and down the scale) but the feeling of the notes themselves (rich, thin, breathy, tired, energized, playful, direct). It’s not volume or tempo but the spirit of what you’re saying, which may indeed make you speak louder and faster, or in whispers and at a slower pace for suspense. Our parents told us, “Don’t speak to me in that tone” when we were little, and we’ve probably all found ourselves obsessing over an offhand remark from a coworker or a date that seemed to have an edge incongruent with the words themselves.


These days we even hear sarcasm and sincerity in text form—give or take those cringy occasions when we misread the tone entirely. Emojis add gesture and emotional nuance to flat text, and as SMS messages and social media have become central communication tools, burgeoning punctuation standards further help the cause: “Why did you use that period?” is the new “Why did you use that tone with me?” (Who knew a tiny black dot could blare with passive-aggression?) Real-time texting and tweeting are informal and conversational, more like spoken language than traditional written language, and the various methods we’ve each found to make our tone clear is what linguist Gretchen McCulloch calls, in her book 
Because Internet,
 “just the latest in a long list of creative strategies to 
say without saying.”
4
 Tone is saying without saying. Or, really, saying 
in addition to
 saying. It’s the crucial information we’re sharing beyond the words themselves about our attitude toward what we’re saying.


There’s a great video on YouTube that mashes up the moment in so many movies where an actor says “let’s get out of here.”
5
 When you listen to them all back-to-back it’s impossible to miss how different each one sounds. Which tracks. After all, convincing someone to run from a monster tends to require a different tone than, say, asking them to slip out of a loud party for a moonlit stroll. We operate this vocal machinery every day—but we’re not always conscious we’re doing it until we have to be. Until the tone we’re using doesn’t work. Until the interrupter keeps interrupting. Until we lose the room or lose the argument. Until the dog doesn’t sit, and we must reckon with what it will take to get her butt down.


Which brings me back to Nell. How could she crack the code on upping her sense of authority while still feeling like herself? You might be in Camp Nell and feel this exact challenge acutely, or you might be in the opposite camp, like Juliana from 
Chapter 3
, who was all business but kept getting the feedback that she seemed closed-off and hard to get to know, and it was hurting her career. The answer is simpler than it might seem, despite the thousands of possible scenarios—from monster to moonlit stroll—and thousands of tones of voice we could assume to get out of there.


The key is thinking about your tone of voice in terms of strength and warmth. Picture two separate dials. The strength dial gauges how competent any of us comes across, from powerful to powerless or highly skilled to I-don’t-know-what-the-eff-I’m-doing. The warmth dial measures how caring we come 
across, from kind to cold. Think about Oprah—if the dials go from 1 to 10, where would you put hers? Think about the last person you spoke with—what would their dials look like?


We read people and are read by people all day every day based on these metrics, though it’s not necessarily conscious. In fact, doing so is primal: our lizard brain, the part of us that houses our age-old survival instincts and makes snap judgments for the sake of efficiency, decides without a huge amount to go on if someone who enters our sphere is a formidable opponent (strong-to-weak dial) as well as if they’ll oppose us or not (warm-to-cold dial). On the one hand, are they a legitimate competitor for resources? And on the other hand, will they want to compete—or cooperate? When we’re trying to get a drink at a crowded bar, we suss out fellow patrons to see where the bartender’s attention will fall. At work, we determine whether the new hire will make our life hell. And then there’s trying to survive the more death-defying scenarios that our instincts were designed for, like deducing who’s most likely to save us in a shootout or share their water on a hike gone wrong.


To convince others, it helps to know how each of us comes across on the receiving end of this calculation. The bad news (that’s also the obvious news because we live in the world) is that our apparent gender, race, age, sexual orientation, height, weight, accent, physical or cognitive ability, and socioeconomic status all factor into how we’re perceived. 
Compelling People,
 John Neffinger and Matthew Kohut’s 2014 book on this strength-warmth interplay, shares study after study about the biases that compel us toward each other or repel us away. It’s unsettling stuff like the fact that a disproportionate number of Black men who run Fortune 500 companies have round faces and soft features, which codes for warmth, since presumably a 
baby face “softens their appearance and keeps them from being perceived as threatening.”
6
 Or evidence of hiring discrimination against people who aren’t thin, because bigger people are perceived as lazy or lacking willpower, which codes for weakness and incompetence.


We can’t easily change our identifying traits (nor would we want to), and we can’t rely on other people shedding their ingrained biases (though hope springs eternal). But what we can change is our tone. And not just on the smallest scale—the shading we give the words that come out of our mouth as we interrupt the interrupter—but on the biggest scale: the energy with which we enter a room or greet a crowd, the dynamism of a whole presentation or pitch, the spirit we bring to the work we’re there to do and the people we’re there to do it with. We can take a huge amount of control over how we’re perceived and upend a whole mess of biases by ratcheting up our strength or warmth or both.


And it is the single greatest gift we can give ourselves if power and a public voice are our goal.


Did you set both of Oprah’s dials at 10? She is strong: she’s a mogul, she’s a decision-maker, her confidence is hard-earned but seems absolutely effortless. And she is warm: she’s famous for getting her guests to open up, and she has built an empire on speaking from the heart and speaking to the soul. She’s as strong as she is warm, and she’s as warm as she is strong. Most of us are a bit more lopsided; hell, even Oprah might say she started out that way. But the takeaway of the research found in 
Compelling People
 is that for women specifically, strength without warmth is a dangerous combination. No surprise—this is what Nell was worried about, and what tends to dredge up all those special insults reserved for strong women. But the op
posite is a nonstarter too. If we come across as warm but not strong, we’re seen as adorable, sweet, oh my gosh 
so
 nice. Which may be more effective than if we seem unlikable, but it’s no help at all if what we really want is to be respected as a voice of authority.


The solution is what Oprah has found, and it’s available to all of us: balance the dials. The stronger we want to seem or the stronger we naturally come across, the warmer we must be to match our strength. And vice versa.


Does this mean we must up the friendly and smiley quotient? To stop the mansplainer in his tracks, the secret is to be sweet, dearie? Um, no. For one thing, no one wants to be told “smile more” (I’m looking at you, leadership coaches of yore). It never elicits a genuine smile; it just breeds resentment. Plus, equating warm with smiley misses the whole point. Warmth isn’t about grinning on the outside; it’s about joy on the inside.


Nothing illustrates this quite like a landmark study conducted in 2004, where nearly 250 male and female undergraduate participants received identical files that described the job performance of a fictional vice president of sales at an aircraft company.
7
 The files were exactly the same, except that some of them were labeled “Andrea” and some “James.” And after looking through these identical files, 86 percent of the students decided that Andrea was less competent than James at the job.


When these undergrads were presented with explicit evidence that in fact both of these made-up sales VPs were actually fantastic at their job, then suddenly 83 percent of the participants judged Andrea as less likable. The author of 
Down Girl,
 Dr. Kate Manne, a philosopher and misogyny scholar at Cornell University, explored these findings in a 2020 
New York Times
 piece, where she pointed to one small tweak the experi
menters employed next that made a massive impact on the participants’ assessments: “When information was included that depicted Andrea as both highly competent and 
communal
—kind, caring, considerate of her employees, and so on—these biases disappeared (and even reversed, in some cases). Suddenly, she was deemed even 
more
 likable than James, and just as desirable as a boss.”
8,
10
 For James, on the other hand, additional info about his warmth, or even about being a father, had no impact on the participants’ attitudes toward him—though, I can’t help but note, he was seen as so likable and competent already, I’m not sure how much more his marks could have improved.


What can we make of these stark results? Manne concludes, “The combination of being a woman and being powerful can be rendered palatable—but to be so, she must be perceived as communal, as a team player and focused on supporting other people.” I catch her tone, for sure; the study is hard to swallow. But wait a second … a team player who supports others and encourages community? I want to work with people who energize the collective rather than trample it, who choose collaboration over competition and love over fear. Andrea sounds like an awesome boss.


The point of upping our warmth, either in a single exchange or as a whole approach to work and life, isn’t to begrudgingly play the get-ahead-in-a-patriarchal-society game (though it’s a side benefit). The point is to live more in line with our values. The point is to use whatever power we gain 
well
. This fictitious Andrea does solid work at work but she also goes hard after her joy and treats people like people so they can feel joy too. She’s strong and warm. Competent and caring. Respected and loved. It’s likely how each of us would describe the people 
we’re drawn to. It’s likely how each of us would want to be described by others.


Upping our strength is about confidence, and I’ve got tools below to hack strength if it feels like that’s what you need. But upping our warmth isn’t just about making our strength more palatable; warmth is about love. Playing with our tone—when we speak, as well as the tone of our overall presentation or our brand or our reputation—is about how we orient toward the world. That’s this idea of attitude, which is our beliefs or our positions 
in relation
 to something or someone. We’re warm when we turn toward, and cold when we turn away. Yes, some circumstances are so toxic and some people so hurtful that we must create boundaries and leave that relationship or that job or that room; we must use our tone to create distance. But when we’re not in self-preservation mode, dialing up warmth is a brave bid to get closer.


Pick up Valarie Kaur’s 
See No Stranger
 about the love that we might extend even to people we don’t know or can’t stand, or Sonya Renee Taylor’s 
The Body Is Not an Apology
 about radical self-love.
9
 Notice what comes up and where you feel resistance to choosing love, because it’s not how we usually talk about work or public speaking. If you want to ensure that your tone is as warm as possible, consider how much you tend to think about your professional pursuits in terms of love. (If not, what’s stopping you?) Consider whether you tend to walk into a room of people more powerful than you and think, One of my greatest assets is that I can take care of them. (What if you did?)


This work is worth it. Because the best way to change your overall tone if you long to come across as less harsh, or less soft, is not to talk into a mirror, De Niro–style. I mean, feel 
free, but it’ll probably feel fakey-fake and you might find it hard to apply anything you’ve learned once you’re away from the mirror. The best way is this inner work, letting yourself poke about at your own preconceived notions of strength and warmth.


Here’s a practical application: to radically up your warmth on that stage or on that Zoom, remember what you truly care about—what makes you jazzed and brings a twinkle to your eye—and connect what you’re speaking about to that, every time. My friend Alexis hated small talk because inevitably people would ask about what she does, and she has a job that’s hard to explain and easy to misconstrue. I’ve witnessed it: this talented, hilarious woman suddenly transforms into an awkward mumbler around people she doesn’t know, avoiding eye contact. She came to me to get over this block and I suggested she stop worrying about the what and get as quickly as possible to the why. In other words, if someone asks, don’t talk about what you do, talk about what you love about what you do.


An actor I coached wrote me with similar anxiety when she was about to embark on her first big press junket: “They’re going to ask me about myself,” she texted me. “I don’t know who I am!?” And I responded, “They want to know what you love. Talk about what you love.” And she killed it. Both women found more permission to show up when they realized that with just a small pivot, they could free themselves to talk about what lights them up.


And listen, I don’t just want you to get good at this for your own sake. You’re upping your warmth for me, for all of us. I believe that every chance each of us gets to step up and speak in public—in a room of two or two thousand—is an act of leadership. Even if it’s answering, “What do you do?” at a party. 
Even if it’s asking a question at a conference. Even if it’s asking for a raise. These acts serve others: they serve everyone who will directly benefit from you getting a “yes” as well as everyone coming up behind. They serve everyone who needs to hear new voices, so they’ll use theirs next time. A friend told me, as I was writing, that I should think of this book as an invitation to the future, to how I see it. Think of speaking up and sharing your ideas as an invitation to the future, too, and consider what type of leader that future needs.


Think of curbing a mansplainer in this vein as well, as an act of leadership. And jumping in to rogue-moderate a meeting if you notice the power dynamic is off-balance. The other day, I went in with a warm and strong “Just a sec. [Name of person]—you had something to say, yes?” when someone on a Zoom meeting hadn’t been able to get a word in edgewise and no one else seemed to notice. I always look for opportunities to practice it. This is a variation on Shine Theory—Aminatou Sow and Ann Friedman’s term for speaking up to shine a light on the contributions of other women and people of color in the space, rather than letting them get steamrolled or competing with them yourself.
11
 It’s a great way to disrupt “meeting culture,” wherein the loudest, most traditionally powerful voices steal the floor over and over. Speak up, and balance that wonky power dynamic. If you do so with strength and warmth, it 
works
. Not every time—there’s no accounting for taste—but it’s magnificently effective.


No matter your position, even if you’re the youngest and least experienced person in the room, when you’re speaking, the moment is 
yours
 and the power you wield in that moment is something you get to decide how to use. Dialing up your warmth—speaking with love and care even when it’s hard—is 
so much bigger than just manipulating your tone of voice to get what you want. It’s laboring for social justice, it’s a political act, it’s changing the world by redefining what power sounds like. Because there’s a distinct possibility that you (most of us) are one “Quick, picture a leader!” prompt away from envisioning a grotesque caricature of 
that guy,
 the boss who belittles his employees and doesn’t take kindly to feedback. Even if you don’t have him in your real life or in charge of your nation, he may nonetheless lurk in your psyche. That’s the definition of leadership you may well be walking around carrying, below the level of consciousness.


In 
Purposeful,
 Jennifer Dulski’s 2018 call-to-arms for movement starters, she says, “We often define toughness as one of the most necessary traits for energizing a movement.
12
 But it can actually be moments of vulnerability and openness that spark the greatest change.” Dulski shares that this was one of the most surprising things she learned as the president and COO of Change.org. But it’s only surprising because traditionally masculine-coded traits are held in such high esteem and traditionally feminine-coded traits are consistently downgraded to “soft skills.” We know to value strength; we don’t always remember to value warmth.


But if you think about who you actually admire in a leadership capacity, the balance emerges. Barack and Michelle Obama come to mind, or New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern, assuring kids that though the Easter Bunny might be taking a Covid sabbatical (an extension of her strict and swift policies to protect her country), there’s still holiday cheer to be had. I think of Mary Portas, the English business leader who wrote 
Work Like a Woman,
 a feminist manifesto taking down entrenched corporate culture after rising in its ranks. I think of 
Alicia Garza, one of the founders of the Black Lives Matter movement, whose background as a community organizer is on display in how she speaks to a crowd: firm but loving, loving but firm. These are all examples of strength with an equal dollop of warmth.


A leadership consultancy firm called Zenger Folkman analyzed over 70,000 business leaders internationally to see if they could determine whether it’s more effective to lead with traits associated with strength or traits associated with warmth.
13
 They found that successful leaders tend to exhibit equal parts strength and warmth, regardless of gender. But intriguingly, the firm also found that people in the highest-level positions—both men and women—lead with more warmth, by a wide margin. Maybe this means that you need to demonstrate competency on the way up, but that ultimately you access real power when you treat people well, inspire them, build trust, communicate, gracefully accept feedback, bravely grow and change, and help others develop themselves too. Actually, that kind of warmth strikes me 
as
 strength.


The separate categories of strength and warmth might have folded in on each other long ago, in fact, if it weren’t for the notions of power we’ve inherited. As Elizabeth Lesser says in 
Cassandra Speaks,
 “The single story of power—the excess of one value system and the exclusion of others—has left humanity in a bind.” She contends that “no one, man or woman, is immune to the allure of the old power story,” and is pretty sure that within each of us whispers a pint-size Sun Tzu (“To maintain order, a leader must expect to wage war”) and a mini Machiavelli (paraphrasing here, “It is better to be feared than loved”). Even if we don’t believe those old dudes and their old worldviews, their words are rattling around inside us. Even if 
their precepts don’t dictate how we behave, they affect who we call powerful and whose voices we hear as authoritative—as well as how we categorize our own.


This overemphasis on strength even masquerades as feminism, or “white feminism,” a knee-jerk celebration of the boss babe that’s just an excuse for glamorizing masculine-coded traits in women. It’s fetishizing strength without warmth. There are blogs and pods and bad-bitch memes spreading the gospel. And I get it: encouraging women to take on the behaviors normally associated with powerful men is a way to get some women into more powerful positions, if they can stomach it for the long haul. But to what end? If you acquire more power of the “that guy” variety, it doesn’t help anyone else and it doesn’t help right a slanted system. 
Lean In
 poster child Sheryl Sandberg didn’t introduce proper paid family leave policies at Facebook till her husband died unexpectedly. It wasn’t access to power that got her to treat people like humans; it was grief.


According to science, being the baddest bitch might not even help you acquire more power in the long run. Dr. Dacher Keltner, a UC Berkeley psychologist who runs the Greater Good Science Center, says those historical figures who proselytized that power is about scaring the crap out of people “are dead wrong. Instead, a new science of power has revealed that power is wielded most effectively when it’s used responsibly by people who are attuned to and engaged with the needs and interests of others.”
1
 Conducting and collecting data over two decades in contexts as varied as frat houses, prisons, and Pixar, Dr. Keltner and his team concluded that empathy and social intelligence are “vastly more important to acquiring and exercising power than are force, deception, or terror.” In fact, in his 
research on human social hierarchies, Dr. Keltner writes that consistently, “it is the more dynamic, playful, engaging members of the group who quickly garner and maintain the respect of their peers” and who rise through the ranks.


I think it’s tempting to believe that sitting at our desk all day, overachieving while swirling our coffee in a branded Smash the Patriarchy mug and thickening our skin in a bid to self-optimize, will lead to the ladyboss coup we each deserve. But if we really want to smash the patriarchy, a measure of our success will be that our skin has remained sensitive to the end. That we care and are caring to the end. That we radiate with warmth and spread love and lift others because that’s the future we want. Every time we get up to speak, we can make that choice.


I recently received a note from a woman who wrote, “I would like to learn how to use my voice more and be more confident with it.” It turns out, she’s a stuntwoman; she literally flies and drives fast cars and beats people up for a living. But of course, our insides don’t always match our outsides. Inside she felt unfulfilled, a lifetime of “quiet” and “soft-spoken” wrapping itself around her like a muzzle. Warmth wasn’t the dial she was worried about; strength was. She was getting more opportunities to speak publicly and was painfully aware that her habits were holding her back.


If you feel this, let’s talk strength. The solution tends to be two things: First, make some big, bold decisions around confidence. And second, take stock of how you define strength. For the first, I love this advice, frequently attributed to Maya Angelou: “Ask for what you want, and be prepared to get it.”
15
 I mean, whoa. You won’t always, of course, but this isn’t about 
wishful thinking; to me, this is pure strategy. Practically speaking, when you talk about what you want with the confidence of someone who expects a yes, your tone shifts. And it cues your listener to give you a yes. Presence, charisma, and con-artist levels of charm all have confidence in common—in other words, being prepared to get it. There’s the slimy version, of course—arrogance, entitlement, machismo—but that’s just strength without warmth. The love component will always inoculate you against seeming arrogant. This is why the balance is so powerful.


My favorite thing about the word “confidence” is that it comes from the Latin 
confidere,
 “to have full trust.” What would it be like to trust yourself fully? One way to practice this is the exercise from 
Chapter 3
 for generating more “personal power,” as Dr. Amy Cuddy calls it: prime yourself to feel more powerful, to trust that you know what you’re doing, by recalling when you’ve felt kickass in the past. When have you trusted yourself in the past? Breathe as you think back and dare yourself to relive the feeling in your body. This sort of priming will affect the tone of your voice, your posture, and the freedom with which you express yourself.


For an example of this work in practice, listen to the beginning of the last episode of the 
Dolly Parton’s America
 podcast. My friend Shima Oliaee produced the award-winning series and was tasked with asking for money right there, at the top of the finale. She was terrified. Money asks are triggering, and trying to raise capital forces any of us to face down old stories about what we think we’re worth. But by that point in the series, she and her producing partner had been swimming in effusive notes from fans, so she was already primed for power. She thought about all the support she’d already received, and 
she thought about how proud she was of the work she’d done. As she took the mic to record the request for money, she trusted that she had made something extraordinary and could enjoy the heck out of a victory lap. You can hear it in her voice.


Strength is not yelling at people or intimidating them (thanks again, Machiavelli, for your legacy of bad advice); it’s inner knowing. It’s not disrespecting people; it’s respecting yourself. Theoretically, you can up the strength dial by securing a high-profile position, gaining a reputation for excellence, or naturally getting lucky with how people perceive you (these are literally called the three P’s in social science—position, performance, or presence). But in reality, what you have the most control over is how you perceive yourself. Strength is telling yourself, 
I belong here, and my voice is urgently needed.
 And then believing it.


My friend and colleague Malika Amandi runs the Center for Women’s Voice, and she comes up with brilliant one-liners all the time. I love this one: “Bring your belonging with you.”
16
 Don’t wait for someone else to make you feel welcome in the room; welcome yourself. Decide you belong wherever you are. It’s a leap of faith and my favorite kind of rebelliousness; it’s all permission all the time and has an alchemical power you can evoke just by deciding to do it.


But I want to take this one step further: when you get the chance to speak, don’t just bring your belonging with you; speak to the desire to belong that every other person in that room secretly harbors. When you’ve got the floor, invite 
their
 belonging in. To balance your strength and warmth, next time you’re planning to give a talk, allow yourself daydream-time in the days leading up to it to imagine that you’re hosting a party—greeting people at the door with a hug, pointing the 
way to the drinks, puttering about to make sure everyone’s comfortable and enjoying themselves. What tone of voice would you take among friends? What if you were tasked with casually welcoming everyone to a gala fundraiser for an excellent cause or a concert unveiling an artist you’re excited to share? I don’t mean a cheesy and performative host, like you’re emceeing a bad open mic night and making it all about you. I mean taking real responsibility for your guests.


Good hosting is about making people feel welcome, so they know they’re in the right place. Our strength in a scenario like that comes from the fact that it’s our turf, our setup; our warmth comes from genuinely wanting our guests to enjoy themselves there. Good public speaking is about the exact same thing, even when it’s technically not our turf. If you’re pitching, presenting, offering feedback, or asking for help, dare yourself to think: Welcome to my show, I made it for you. Welcome to my party, I threw it for you.


To make your next presentation feel more like it’s on your turf, consider ahead of time how you can own the space—as Priya Parker says in 
The Art of Gathering,
 ask yourself the purpose of your gathering, and design for that. What is your goal? Maybe you want to persuade those in attendance. Or build common ground. Terrify them into seeing the truth. Maybe you want to allay their fears and put them at ease. What can you do to achieve that goal in the space? Maybe you rearrange the chairs or give the tech person some music to play. Maybe you decide to begin with a personal story, even though no one else at the conference has. Or maybe you ask everyone to turn to their neighbor and discuss a question that will be relevant for the talk you’re about to give. Or you start with Q&A rather than ending with it. Maybe you step away from the podium, or 
off the stage entirely. Maybe you decide to stand to pitch even if it’s over Zoom or you turn off your PowerPoint and ask everyone to close their eyes for a moment and visualize something. Create what Priya calls “pop-up rules”
17
 that apply only for the duration of your talk. Scare yourself with how cheeky you are, making up the rules like you own the place.


Priya refers to good hosting as “generous authority”—not so chill that you play to the skeptics in the room and leave everyone else adrift, not so rigid that you’re ignoring your guests’ signs that they’re either flagging or ready to dance. Generous authority certainly sounds like another name for the warmth-strength balance to me. Another name for it is 
How to Own the Room
 author and podcast host Viv Groskop’s “happy high status”
18
—her term for Clooney levels of confidence blended with an impulse to lift others up too. Strength and warmth. Brené Brown’s is “strong back, soft front.” Among grade-school teachers it’s widely referred to as “warm demanders”—a pedagogical style that uses tough love and high expectations to help students reach their potential. Strength and warmth. It’s everywhere.


In fact, without knowing it, you’ve probably been experimenting with balancing strength and warmth for years. Every time you send an email and obsess about your exclamation-point-to-period ratio, you’re working on the balance. When you whine (or your kid does), it’s anger that doesn’t entirely believe it deserves to be heard, so it gets squeezed—not enough strength or warmth. When you’ve got bulldog energy, it’s often what comes of plowing ahead through nerves, working on your strength muscle but forgetting to listen, which means forgetting to work the warmth muscle too. When you’re busy pleasing everyone but yourself, you’re in warmth mode 
without strength. (I think of this T-shirt I have as the antidote: it says 
DO NO HARM
 on the front, and then on the back: 
BUT TAKE NO SHIT
.) Notice when the balance feels off and start to self-diagnose which of the two dials needs a nudge in the right direction.


But notice, too, when the balance feels on. Notice when you catch yourself feeling both strong and warm. This is another lesson I never expected from motherhood: turns out, when you’re raising a little human, you get real clear about what your values are, because you’re confronted every day with what matters to you enough to curb their behavior and what doesn’t. With mine, I honestly don’t care if he gets up from the table at dinner a bunch even though it’d be easier if he stayed put. But I do care quite a bit that he doesn’t throw sand in his friend’s eyes. I mean, I’m raising a white boy in America, and I take every opportunity I can get to instill in him how important it is to respect other people’s bodies. But in that spirit, I can’t control him either; I can only convince him. How? By being strong and warm. By assuring him I mean business; it’s nonnegotiable. And by assuring him he can do it and that I love him even when he makes mistakes. I catch myself speaking to my kid and it takes my breath away: 
that’s
 my authority voice. That’s leadership. And if I’m a leader over here, can I lead over there?


Listen for your authority voice. Listen for when you’re assured and assuring. Assured is strength; it’s 
I got this
. Assuring is warmth; it’s 
I got you
. Even if you think of yourself as the toughest broad you know, even if you secretly worry that you’re the timidest, I bet you’ve been assured and assuring for the people in your life who’ve needed you when they’ve needed you. 
I got this, I got you.
 I bet you already perform this balanc
ing act for those you love—when your mom or your partner is having a rough day. When your colleague is feeling vulnerable. When your best friend is suffering heartache. Listen for your authority voice in surprising places. And then bring it with you when you speak in public.


This is what Nell needed to hear. She had accidentally put “people who sound authoritative” and “how I sound” on opposite ends of a spectrum. But in truth, she knew how to sound assured and assuring; she just needed to recognize it and then give herself permission to apply it elsewhere. I’m always collecting voices, role models who embody the new sound of power, and encouraging you to keep an ear out for them too—we’ve got to learn from them and celebrate them and remember them. But do not mistake that for finding your authority voice outside yourself. It lives in you.

















6


Sounds




Language, incontestably, reveals the speaker.


—JAMES BALDWIN
1




Here’s a common phenomenon: a client who’s come to me for dialect work is 
so
 excited to finally understand the difference between sounds they’ve been making their whole life and sounds they’ve never made before. They start to integrate the new sounds into their speech, enjoying a burst of pride when it begins to feel natural. They may even notice a change in how well others understand or respond to them—just as they were hoping. The new sound becomes a part of them, a part of how they express themselves.


And then they go home for the holidays and their family hears them and bristles. Are they pretending to be something they’re not now? Are they embarrassed by their heritage? Sometimes the reaction isn’t so overt, but it nonetheless stirs up resentment or insecurity in the people this new sound seems to leave behind. 
What’s wrong with how you sounded before?
 the family wonders.


Reflecting on the sounds coming out of our mouths gets existential real fast, and inevitably brings up questions of belong
ing: Who do we sound like? Why? And who do we 
want
 to sound like? How is this voice of ours—not just the accent but the cadence, the pace, the choice of words (fancy multisyllabic words or colloquial, sweary or clean), the flamboyance or restraint—a result of every version of ourselves we aspire to be and every version we’ve been before?


“Accent” refers to the vowel and consonant sounds of someone’s speech, but “dialect” is the container for these larger questions about cultural trends and personal choice. When we speak, what comes out is a reflection of the choices each of us has made (to leave home, to date that person, to get by in that room) combined with what we have not been allowed to choose for ourselves (where we grew up, how everyone around us spoke when we were little). Did your parents have unusual accents compared to everyone else around you? Were they embarrassed by how they sounded or proud? Consider, as a child, how formal the adults were when they talked—to each other, to you. How much they cursed, or shushed, or laughed. And if that might affect how you speak today, or how you assess others’ speech. Consider if talking over each other was a sign of disrespect in your family or a sign of intimacy, and if that plays out in conversations you have now. If yelling in anger was reserved only for the highest-status members of a household or viewed as a healthy release for anyone. And what the consequences were for raising your voice—being heard or being slapped? In some ways, when you speak now, we hear how you were 
spoken to
 as a child.


In her twenties, my friend Amy battled vocal nodules just like me, painful irritations on her vocal cords that threatened her career as an audiobook narrator. Working with a voice and speech teacher, she discovered that the nodules stemmed from 
the fact that she was the middle child of five. When she was little, she would regularly pipe up without taking a breath first, desperate to get a word in, and that habit stuck, jostling her vocal cords as she jockeyed for attention long after people were willing to give it to her freely. After this diagnosis, she worked hard to learn how to take meaningful breaths before she opened her mouth to speak, and to trust that there would still be space in the conversation for her words when she was ready. She recalls wandering around New York City for weeks, just sobbing. The process of rewriting such an old story had cracked open something raw inside her.


It’s not just our family of origin or our birth order that forms early vocal habits. All of our own nascent inklings, proclivities, and crushes shaped how we sound as well—your favorite TV character’s verbal stylings and the inside jokes you shared with your friends. Whoever’s face you plastered on your wall and what “cool” sounded like around the time you took your drivers’ test and experimented with more independence. How you learned to flirt, ask for help, and argue—and whether you were rewarded for winning or for compromising.


“Speech activities can be quite specific at the most local level,” write Dr. Penelope Eckert and Dr. Sally McConnell-Ginet in 
Language and Gender
. “Some couples, for example, value arguing while others avoid it. Some friendship groups engage regularly in fast-paced banter while others are more deliberate in their conversation. Particular communities of practice may engage regularly in—or even be built around—gossip, exchanging salacious stories, mutual insults, talking about problems, complaining, reading aloud, praying.” I think back on my high school friends, a group of outgoing theater kids in sunny California during the 
Clueless
 era, but the big
gest outside influence on our speech patterns? Tim Meadows’s “The Ladies Man” skits on 
Saturday Night Live
. I cringe now at the appropriation. But like the hot song of summer, vocal trends are catchy. I mean, I loved 
My Fair Lady
 as a kid, but really you don’t need an all-consuming Henry Higgins vocal boot camp to change how you speak; you’re doing it every day.


And just to be clear, it’s not only your vowels and consonants that likely make you sound a little different from me—we each pick up and fine-tune our own musicality, too, our tempo and volume and how we set up and land a joke. You might envy someone who’s skilled at telling stories, but I guarantee you’ve got your own storytelling style, a rhythm and melody that come out when you’re really on fire to talk. If you’re from a family of Northwest London Jamaicans or Harlem-raised Puerto Ricans or Jewish South African immigrants living in San Francisco, you likely have an innate sense of how to tell a story like the ones you heard around the dinner table as a kid, as well as a sense of whether you’re part of that tradition or an outlier—the black sheep, the one who somehow never quite fit in.


Our style of speech is affected by all kinds of factors: Did you live in a cold climate or a warm one when you were learning to speak? Were you raised in a fast-paced metropolis or a sleepy town by the sea or up in the hills? Some historical linguists suggest that 
r
-color, the degree to which someone pronounces the 
r
 sound at the end of, say, “dollar,” is related to how rural or mountainous their region is—at least in the United States, because it was in the port cities far from the mountains where the 
r
-dropping British trend really took off (think New York, Boston, and the Mississippi Delta). Dolly 
Parton is a beautiful example of this mountain 
r
-color (“He’s the only one furr me, Jolene”). Warmer climates tend to lead to looser mouths and longer vowels, while colder climates produce tighter mouths—the better to keep the body heat in. Think about the difference between Northern and Southern accents, not just in the United States but in every country above the equator, and the opposite direction below it. Germans from Berlin in the north have strong feelings about the relaxed, singsong drawl of Bavarians in the south. I happened upon an old article about candidates vying for leadership of the nation that explained that 2002’s southern candidate for chancellor, Edmund Stoiber, and his “singsong Bavarian accent have increasingly been getting a cold reception … Much about the southern lilt in the language of Bavarians grates on the ears and nerves of other Germans, and that cultural clash may help explain why Edmund Stoiber was turning off voters.”
2
 Indeed, he lost.


So, what’s going on with your speech? Do you pronounce “hand” with the same 
a
 as “apple”? Or is it more collapsed and nasal, as though anticipating the 
n
 after it? What if you tried to match it to the 
a
 in “apple”—how does that sound to you? Too fancy or perfectly natural? Would you say “Did you go?” with a 
joo
 sound linking the “did” and the “you”? What about a 
choo
 sound in the phrase “Let me get you something”? What does it feel like to leave that out, pronouncing a clean “get” and “you”? Does it feel more formal? Are you suddenly holding your breath, wondering if you’re doing it right?


What if you said Robert De Niro’s classic line from 
Taxi Driver,
 “You talkin’ to me?” but put the 
g
 back into the word “talking”? Does it make you want to put the “are” into the top of the phrase? What about asking someone “What’s the time?” 
Say it out loud, like you’re really asking, and notice: Did you pronounce the 
th
 in the word “the” or turn it into a 
z
? Dr. John McWhorter, a linguist at Columbia University and host of the 
Slate
 podcast 
Lexicon Valley,
 says, “The tidiness of writing creates the illusion that speaking is a deliberate placement of words in sequence, like setting a table. It is actually a lightning-speed and subconscious transformation of words into word-sandwiches like ‘Joo …’ for ‘Did you?’ and stealth idioms like ‘What are you doing in a tutu?’ when you are only asking why the person is wearing the tutu rather than what action that person is performing in it.”
3


On top of that, we’re often inconsistent throughout the day as we bend our speech to fit the occasion. We speak differently to our mom than we do to a police officer or a little kid or this friend versus that friend. And we speak differently to each of them as the stakes shift. We might say “I’m going to go” if we’re struggling to manage some unwieldy emotions, or “I’m gonna go” if we’re feeling more relaxed. (“Imna go” or “Imma go” or “ah-ma go” might feel like a natural option too, or something you’d never say normally.) We might pronounce “Internet” more like “inner-net” if we’re talking about the cable guy coming to check our connection but reinsert the 
t
 when we’re making a grand pronouncement about globalization. We might alternate between languages or dialects, to fit in or get what we want or keep ourselves safe; linguists and sociologists call this code-switching, and it’s something almost all of us do as we navigate the world.


Indeed, this deep dive into dialect isn’t just about funny sounds we make with our mouths. Tiny tongue movements and minor distinctions in inflection are the sorts of negotiations we make all the time, at rapid speed and often without 
conscious thought as we wrestle with how we’re perceived. Context plays into this calculation, as well as how comfortable we feel with our listeners and how grimly or favorably we sense we’re being evaluated. When a new client calls to discuss working together, I suddenly start sounding like a prosecutor. But if I can tell their own speech is looser, my formality slips away. Only vaguely aware in the moment, I’m nonetheless pulling the levers to get what I want based on who I’m talking to and why.


For those of you who’ve struggled with sounding foreign in a foreign land, or who’ve been stamped from the beginning with a regional or class-based or racially connoted sound that’s fraught with bias, I see you. The levers are hard to pull and slippery as hell. For those of you who’ve never been entirely conscious of your “sound,” this is an invitation to become aware. For those of you who have, this is a chance to recognize that you’re not alone. In Hollywood we change our dialect to tell stories; in the real world we do it to get power.


After all, why 
would
 we want to sound different from home? Maybe it’s to win the election or get the job, but maybe it’s more abstract: a general feeling that a more “neutral” or “standard” sound will get us heard, get us taken seriously, get us ignored rather than mocked, ensure us love or respect or entrée. And we might be right. As famed singing coach Roger Love says, “The sounds coming out of your mouth set up a whole range of expectations about how you’ll behave, how accessible you are, what your sense of humor is like, and how high your energy level is.”
4
 If our voice reveals so much, it stands to reason we’d want to have some agency over what exactly we’re revealing. Dr. Katherine Kinzler is a psychologist at the University of Chicago whose book, 
How You Say It,
 
is all about the hidden costs of sounding “nonstandard,” and she writes, “Decades of social psychology research on intergroup and interpersonal relations suggest that we just can’t seem to turn off our ‘category detectors,’ which divide the world into us and them.”
5
 So, what do we do if we want to be part of 
them
?


If you come from a family of immigrants and if your friends in school did not, you may have felt this longing quite young. Maybe you rejected assimilating and actively hewed closer to the familiar; maybe you took the invitation to escape and still have pride or shame around it. There’s a lot of data to suggest that the children of immigrants more closely match the dialects of their peers than the dialects of their parents, although of course there are a number of factors involved in feeling like an outsider and deciding to do something about it.


If you’re a member of the LGBT+ community and you were teased for a seeming lisp early on, or a more fanciful musicality in your speech, or a more “butch” communication style than your cis-normative peers, you might have figured out how to turn these features on and off. If you’re a Black professional, you’re surely all too aware of the different rhythms that underlie predominantly white spaces and Black spaces, and you have had more than enough practice trying to blend into both—code-switching between the two. In linguistic circles, African American English is often referred to as a language rather than a dialect because it’s governed by fully formed and consistent rules that differ significantly from “Standard American English,” and if you are a speaker of AAE who straddles multiple social worlds, you’re likely bilingual. Maybe you avoid a verb tense that is considered “nonstandard” at work or overpronounce the 
t
 in “what” to compensate for assumptions flying at you from 
white colleagues. And you might underpronounce it at home in order to sidestep the accusation that you’re putting on airs. There’s an essay on 
Medium
 called “For Black Girls Whose Voices Are ‘Too White’ or ‘Too Black,’” where artist Margot Macy writes about growing up Black in Oakland, California, with an accent that sounded too Valley Girl to some, too Southern Black to others. “I would oftentimes sound silly in class, trying to overextend my words so the white speech gatekeepers wouldn’t notice learned habits from my family.”
6
 But then around said family, “when your cousins ask why you sound like that, say, ‘Because I was born a unicorn, silly, and so were you.’”


I mean, that’s it. In truth, we’re all unicorns, and there’s an official term for this: idiolect. It’s the way that you sound different from every other human on Earth because your voice reflects your unique life experience. Do a YouTube search for any interview with a celebrity who looks like you and try to repeat back their phrases; you’ll feel what a different lifetime sounds like in your mouth. Your voice might include the vocal markers of elder Millennial derby girls or growing up with deaf parents or living on the border between two countries or any of a billion intersecting identities that are intrinsically you or that you try on for size: adding “like” into phrases that don’t require it; word choice; speaking in abbreviations; raunchiness; generational references; your own blends of highbrow and low; the ways you might weave in words from other languages or dialects whether they reflect your own heritage or not; trendy inflections; vocal fry; or Internet slang that’s new to spoken English.


Your communication style is how you negotiate for what you want in the moment, but it also signals your identity and your tribe, which linguists suggest may be why dialects around 
the world even arose to begin with. As Kinzler says, “Separate two groups by a mountain range, and they will quickly evolve different ways of speaking.” This is about how we choose—whether we know it or not—to perform our identity to signal who we are and who we are like. Which side of the mountain we call home. And this happens in all kinds of ways: our clothing choices, our hair, our gestures, our work, our friends, and of course our voices. James Baldwin said, “A language comes into existence by means of brutal necessity, and the rules of the language are dictated by what the language must convey.” It may not always feel so violent, but each flick of our tongue is an homage to something that exists 
for a reason,
 and likely exists 
in us
 for a reason too.


But tell that to members of the dominant culture, who enjoy the benefits of sounding “standard” so thoroughly they’ve come to see it as superior. When white women of a certain generation asked me about this book as I was writing it, I began to expect a certain response: “Oh, thank God. Girls these days are ruining their chances at being taken seriously. I can’t stand their voices.” Idiolects confuse people, even though the very people they confuse have an idiolect of their own—it just may be one that more closely matches the sound that’s historically been associated with power. Assume the accent and affect of the straightest, whitest, richest man in the room, dahling. Worry over all the other poor souls who don’t.


In fact, there’s a massive amount of data to suggest that accent bias is about as widespread as accented speech is. Which is to say, we’ve all got it. In a famous study conducted by Dr. Donald Rubin and his colleagues, Stony Brook University undergrads were played a recording of a native English speaker, a gentleman from Ohio, but groups of students were shown dif
ferent photos along with the voice.
7
 When the accompanying image was of an Asian man, the students reported that the speaker had an accent, but not when the accompanying photo was of a white man. Think of the ramifications!


Though businesses all around the world have instituted anti-discrimination policies preventing (or at least intended to prevent) biases against prospective employees based on their skin color, ethnicity, or gender, policies preventing accent-related bias simply don’t exist. (And certainly not at the voting booth; ask Bavaria’s Edmund Stoiber.) Meanwhile, according to Dr. Michael Kraus, a professor of organizational behavior at the Yale School of Management, during even brief interactions, speech patterns shape our perceptions of the speaker’s overall competence. His study suggests we’re able to judge “social class” with reliable accuracy merely from hearing 
seven random words
. “We rarely talk explicitly about social class, and yet, people with hiring experience infer competence and fitness based on socioeconomic position estimated from a few seconds of an applicant’s speech,”
8
 Kraus said. He points out what should be apparent: “Despite what these hiring tendencies may suggest, talent is not found solely among those born to rich or well-educated families.” As journalist Viv Groskop quipped when she reported on Kraus’s work for 
The Financial Times,
 “No one actually intends to take their parents into a job interview, but it seems that they sneak in anyway.”
9


How you move your tongue a fraction of a millimeter one direction or another can affect your salary, whether your lease application is accepted, or whether you’re recommended for a loan or a place on the roster. And how others move 
their
 tongues a fraction of a millimeter can affect how you treat them. What biases might you be perpetuating? Animator Saf
wat Saleem, in a TED Talk on growing up sounding “other,” defangs the beast of discrimination by suggesting it might be useful to think of bias as favoritism instead.
10
 If you’re in a hiring position, you’re apt to want to help people you relate to more than you’re motivated to hurt people you don’t.


And if you’re reading this thinking, Well, I’m not in a hiring position, what if this extends to every social interaction? What if you started noticing who you happen to relate to and why? Who you trust implicitly, start a book club with, or want to exchange numbers with. We may be “speech gatekeeping” more than we realize and shutting out humans yearning to connect, and the type of diversity we say we want in our lives.


When Ilyse Hogue came on my podcast, I asked her what she would tell someone who wanted to run for office for the first time but who didn’t look or sound like what we’ve been taught power and authority looks and sounds like. She’s a powerhouse Washingtonian who’s on a first-name basis with every congressperson you probably admire; she’s helped many of them campaign. I knew she’d have valuable advice. But she didn’t tell me the secret to raising money or how to take a risky policy stance or how to brush off sexist comments when they find you. She said simply: Be proud of your life. The one you’ve actually lived, including the setbacks and mistakes, what you might be ashamed of or not yet over or what happened to you when you didn’t get a say in the matter. Take the time to own all the parts. If you’re going to speak up in any way, own all the parts. You don’t have to speak about them all but show up as someone who doesn’t need to hide.


And the same goes for the voice: be proud of yours. As you 
get to know your sound a little better and reckon with the story of how it got that way, consider it an invitation to own all the parts, the on-purpose bits and the accidental ones. No one else on the planet sounds exactly like you. You are the human experiment right where you are, and your voice is its hypothesis and its conclusion. Of course, you might hate the sound of your voice even after this pep talk (a shockingly common sentiment). You might have an accent that’s driving you batty. You might still sense that you’re not using your voice right. These feelings are valid. But as you get in there and explore it, I dare you to work toward a kind, curious, spirited relationship with your voice—by which I mean a kind, curious, spirited relationship with the life you’ve led.


But don’t leave it there. This isn’t about reconciling ourselves to how we sound, even if it’s in our way. It’s not about getting over it or blissing out on a puffy cloud of self-acceptance. That’s not fair and it’s not realistic. Rather, I want you to turn a steady eye on the life you 
want,
 as well. If you’re drawn to shifting some of your speaking habits you’ve perhaps outgrown, if you’re interested in uncovering a voice that’s more true and more powerful than the one you’ve happened into, that’s valid too. I hope your family back home comes around. This is about holding how you sound firmly and with great love while you consider all your options. This is about giving yourself permission to do so.


Maybe, for you, this process is a chance to explore a lifelong discomfort with speaking even in relatively comfortable situations. It’s a chance to look closely at what’s been holding you back from stringing together thoughts out loud in a strong, clear voice. None of us will sound free as long as we’re stuck 
constantly worrying that we’ve got something to prove or something to hide. One impulse keeps us pushing outward (look at me!), one keeps us pushing inward (please don’t!), and neither lets us be. Maybe it’s an old story that, like my friend Amy discovered, needs to be released.


For some of you, this will be a chance to celebrate the version of yourself that you actually 
like
 in private—when you catch yourself around people who make you feel safe, when you have something you just 
have
 to share, when you’re a little tipsy or just drunk on joy, when you trust that you know how to tell a story that’ll land and then you land it to wild acclaim. For you, the challenge will be in scaling that magical creature up into more public spheres without losing her sparkle.


But for all of us, this effort to be proud of how we sound is activism. It’s larger than any one of us. Because the forces making us question our voices are larger than any one of us. There’s a reason NPR White House correspondent Ayesha Rascoe’s accented voice stands out, or 
Call Your Girlfriend
 cohost Ann Friedman gets hate mail for speaking with authority while vocal frying, or U.S. congresswoman Ilhan Omar’s political career has been so breathtaking despite being a Somali refugee and sounding like it. There’s a cult of “Standard English” we’ve all grown up associating with professionalism and power. These rare and absolutely instructive exceptions point to a revolution in what professionalism means and who gets to have power.


I worked with a client who had successfully pitched herself to host and produce a new podcast at a well-established media company and dove into recording episodes. But she was feeling unsettled—she wasn’t sure which version of her speaking style she should be using for her extensive voiceovers, how detached and even or personal and dynamic she should sound, 
how much like a generic newscaster or like a friend, since she thought she could pull off either. She wondered, is there a “neutral” sound for podcasters or a standard, and did she have to meet the requirements to be taken seriously? She wondered, why hadn’t the podcast mecca offered her any words of wisdom on this issue, since her voice would inevitably become part of the show’s brand? I was not at all surprised they hadn’t; few people think about vocal options, and certainly not the successful men in charge of her podcast’s production company. She and I had a single session, and all we did was talk. But I told her what I’m telling you—that our voices reflect our life experience. That our life experience is legitimate. That she has permission to honor her own communication style, which she told me she knew was whimsical and quirky and playful in her more carefree moments. Look, if you’ve got whimsy dancing inside you, I’ll always encourage you to let it out. Do it for you. But also, do it for the rest of us. It’s a revolution simply to open your mouth and speak with confidence in a voice you recognize as yours.


The summer I was twenty-three, I began every morning on the floor of an iconic black-box studio at the Public Theater in Manhattan, breathing with a group of thirteen other actors. We were part of a three-month training program that included workshops with some of Shakespeare in the Park’s biggest stars, and then touring around the five boroughs of New York introducing Shakespeare to kids. Effervescent Juilliard voice and speech coach Kate Wilson led our morning sessions, and after we breathed, we would move, forming gestures with our bodies to symbolize all the vowel sounds in English. Facing each other in a circle, we’d rub our tummies and chant 
“
ooooooo.
” Kate, big-bellied in her final stages of pregnancy that summer, taught us this secret code of sounds like some prehistoric Earth mother around a clandestine hearth. And then we’d throw our buzzing bodies into Shakespeare’s words.


It should have been silly. But it was so much more—the living words of a dead poet mingled with the vitality of theater people and theater lore and theater parties. I spent that summer drunk on red wine, for sure. But also intoxicated by the gift Kate gave us: she was teaching us the International Phonetic Alphabet (the “IPA”) around that hearth, a matrix of about forty symbols meant to capture the discrete sounds of spoken language—a code used by linguists, speech pathologists, and lexicographers around the world.


The IPA is a bit hard to learn and borders on algebra. It features characters that look just like letters from English (or the Latin alphabet, if we want to be academic about it) but that are often misleading, plus symbols that look like Greek because they literally are. And then there are diacritical marks—a bunch of dots and squiggles denoting all kinds of additional aspects of the musicality, length, or placement of the sound in question. If you’ve ever noticed the upside-down lowercase 
e
 in a dictionary pronunciation guide, that’s an example of an IPA symbol. And the coolest one: the schwa. It’s a catchall term for the tiny “uh” sound that hides in unstressed syllables of English. It’s the 
a
 in “amuse,” the 
e
 in “enough” (some of the time!), the second 
o
 in “apostrophe” but definitely not the first, and the first, third, and possibly fifth syllable of “responsibility,” depending on your dialect.


Kate made learning the IPA feel organic and intuitive. Those physical gestures were a handy link between sound and symbol—and I’ve taught my own version of these gestures to 
clients from beginners to movie stars, from CEOs to foreign dignitaries. In grad school the following fall, I bought my own copy of 
Speak with Distinction,
 a 1942 book by Edith Skinner that’s still considered the speech bible today. Skinner, who codified the IPA for the stage, was purportedly a character, showing up at the Carnegie Mellon theater classes she taught from 1937 till 1974 wearing turbans and mink and handing out groceries to actors short on cash. Skinner’s legacy is enshrined in the curricula of nearly every drama school in the United States, and in the performances of most A-list actors too, since they’ve almost all been coached by practitioners who are one or two degrees removed from the legend herself.


Skinner’s other major contribution to how we speak seems on the surface like a natural extension of the IPA: she introduced a standard pronunciation of American English that she called simply “Good Speech”
11
—a preferred way of forming each vowel and consonant out loud so that Shakespearean actors might lose their regionalisms and sound, as Skinner says in her book, “correct.”


“Good Speech” aims for the most pure, open, and energized version of every sound so as not to hurt the vocal apparatus or restrict the voice. In “Good Speech” the 
a
 in “hand” and “apple” match precisely. In “Good Speech” we would never say “Dijoo go?” but always “Did you go?” This standardized accent offers us what standards always do: a guide to what’s collectively been deemed the rule, so we can accurately measure deviations from the rule.


Her emphasis on “correct” speech always made me feel defiant, but I didn’t have the words to explain why exactly until I started to coach not just actors but nonactors. As word of mouth spread, I was suddenly receiving requests every day 
from people vibrating with anxiety, sure that they sounded wrong, that how they spoke 
was wrong
. People desperate for “accent reduction”—not so they’d be understood, strictly speaking, but so they’d be accepted or maybe even “pass” as American. Foreigners yearning to sound “native,” native speakers with an unpopular (read: marked for class or race) regional accent yearning to sashay through the gates the gatekeepers held firm. And I realized my own idiolect had afforded me the privilege of not thinking about accents as life or death. I realized that as a coach, in an authority position, I had to be very clear about what I was offering: options. Options give us power. I was not, however, offering “the right way to speak,” as though speaking “well” has anything to do with morality. That’s a narrative that serves someone else; it keeps someone else in power. Because here’s what 
Speak with Distinction
 doesn’t say but should: “Good Speech” is the vocal arm of white supremacy.


After all, who do these standards help? Just listen to this line from Skinner’s book: “each vowel sound is called a PURE SOUND, and the slightest movement or change in any of the organs of speech during the formation of a vowel will mar its purity.” The all caps are hers, not mine. It turns out, she trained early on with a man named William Tilly, an Australian-born phonetician who literally made up “Good Speech” around 1900 by combining his favorite bits of American and British pronunciations—this is why it’s sometimes labeled “mid-Atlantic” or “transatlantic,” as though his clients’ elitist wet dream was to speak like they were raised on a boat floating somewhere between the East Coast and England.


But in fact, Tilly 
made
 it their dream. He was a brilliant marketer of voice as status symbol, first in Germany in the 
early years of the twentieth century, where he founded an institute that was famous for its rigorous teaching methods. Then, after World War I, Tilly moved to the United States, where he set up shop near Columbia University and introduced the accent he had engineered himself in order to reform English. This made-up hybrid dialect that 
no one actually spoke
 except his own disciples became the new hot thing in New York City around 1918, due in part to the allure of social mobility the sound seemed to offer and in part to Tilly’s extremely demanding teaching methods, which his students mistook for genius. In Germany those students had been English-as-a-second-language professionals, British diplomats, and scholars; in the States his clientele was largely schoolmistresses excited to enforce these strict rules of elocution in their classrooms. One such disciple, Marguerite DeWitt, cleverly made up a portmanteau to describe Tilly’s superior pronunciation he peddled: Euphonetics. (The American Eugenics Society officially formed in 1921, though its members were organizing prior to that, pushing their pseudoscience about superior white genes around the same time wide-eyed teachers flocked to Tilly’s school. Total coincidence I’m sure. And just in case you think I’m being overdramatic, DeWitt wrote in her own book on phonetics of her fear of immigrants, of the “far too unlimited influx of those aliens who are in great part racially opposed to us, or those who are but the unlamented dregs of Europe … to infuse into the body politic blood that destroys the racial blood of a nation.”)
12


So Tilly, a zealot born on the other side of the world before the American Civil War was over, ended up with an outsized influence on what well-spoken English has meant in America for over a hundred years. It’s systemic racism—we’ve inherited 
it and, in many cases, still perpetuate it. It’s certainly in Margot Macy’s “white speech gatekeepers.” And it starts at a young age. Stanford linguist Dr. Anne Charity Hudley, a hero of mine, wrote in 
Slate
 that kids who speak nonstandardized English pick up the signal that something about them isn’t right early on in life. “Even by the end of kindergarten, many students have absorbed messages that their language is wrong, incorrect, dumb, or stigmatized.”
13
 She adds, “When I studied the language patterns of 4- and 5-year-old Black children in several U.S. cities, many of them were worried that just talking with me would somehow cause them to be held back a grade if they did not do well in the conversations.”


This linguistic insecurity, as it’s been termed, is well founded: kids can sense that they’re getting categorized and being labeled as “subpar.” And if they haven’t learned the rules of “Good Speech” or “Euphonetics” by the time they graduate high school, the label becomes nearly impossible to remove. My friend Dwayne still remembers the name of the teacher who told him when he was nine years old that he probably wouldn’t graduate high school and certainly wouldn’t attend college—he just didn’t talk right. He now runs his own law firm in Hollywood. But too many kids internalize these messages to the extent that, as Dr. Charity Hudley told me, “They’re not confident in the true sound of their own voice.” She calls it a systematic squelching of the “Black linguistic imagination.”


William Tilly’s esoteric, cultish fad could have faded into obscurity along with corsets and other oppressive trends of the early twentieth century. But instead, it leapt to Hollywood—in large part thanks to Edith Skinner—spilling out of the mouths of actors just as talkies became all the rage in the late 
1920s, and Katharine Hepburn and Jimmy Stewart signaled to absolutely everybody what culture and sophistication should sound like. The British equivalent, “received pronunciation” or “RP” or “the Queen’s English,” had been adopted by the BBC in 1922, and now Yankees could have their own status shorthand, the sound of the American dream out loud. This ambition held fast to our grandparents’ and parents’ collective psyches. And no matter your race or your own relationship to Standard English as it’s morphed over the ensuing century (losing some of its eccentricity, maintaining its associations with right and proper as opposed to wrong and unprofessional), Tilly’s made-up accent has insidiously had its way with each of us.


You likely deviate from the standard in some way when you speak. And you may have been penalized for it, from someone older and in a traditionally powerful position who ritualistically enforces Tilly’s rules with no notion of their origins. Someone who likely considers him- or herself well intentioned. The manager at work or avuncular family friend or mentor or teacher who pulled you aside and offered, in a voice laced with gentle pity, “No one’s going to take you seriously if …”


But as a professional dialect coach I can tell you, it is entirely arbitrary. When I mention this aspect of what I do, it’s all anyone wants to talk about. 
The New York Times
 ran an online quiz in 2013 called “How Y’all, Youse and You Guys Talk” that its creator, Josh Katz, confirmed was the most trafficked page the 
Times
 had ever published and still gets a fair amount of hits today.
14
 We’re fascinated by accents. We love comedians who can do spot-on impressions and we celebrate actors who disappear into roles that sound nothing like them.


On the other hand, our own accent, if we’re aware of it, 
seems like nothing but trouble. I’ve worked with people from the American South who want to lose their accent because they get the impression colleagues associate their sound with stupidity; I’ve worked with people from the American North who want to lose their accent because in dealings with Southerners, they find they come across as cold or closed-off. I’ve worked with people who speak English as a second language who are obsessed with how thick their accent is, no matter how clear they sound, because they’ve received feedback—cruel or kind—that’s paralyzed them. And I’ve spoken at great length to entertainment industry friends about Hollywood’s obsession with casting non-American Black actors in American roles because the decision-makers choose exoticism over facing their discomfort around our homegrown history of slavery, and they’d rather hire a dialect coach than examine their bias.


Bill Bryson, in 
The Mother Tongue: English and How It Got That Way,
 confirms what should be obvious: that no accent has inherent value over any other. In fact, “considerations of what makes for good English or bad English are to an uncomfortably large extent matters of prejudice and conditioning.” First impressions aren’t really first impressions; they’re inherited biases. We can learn, as listeners, to check them, and should. We can commit to listening with a kind, curious ear to difference. We can work, in our sphere of influence, to unlink sound from access to power. But we can learn, as speakers, to take control of the narrative too.


Focus for a moment on what you love about your voice. I bet these sounds that come out of your mouth, your way with words, 
yours,
 has served you somewhere in some way. Where? How? And how is it serving you now? Who do you sound like 
and why is that wonderful? Who can you connect with because of how you talk? What do you sound like when your urge to speak is greater than your qualms? When your mission is bigger than your mindgunk? I want to hear from her. I need her. We all do.

















7


Words




It’s practicing, rehearsing, but also making sure that inside me, it lives there.


—AMANDA GORMAN
1




You may have noticed that this book has mostly ignored the actual words coming out of your mouth when you speak. Your voice is so much more than the words themselves, which is a helpful reminder if you ever find yourself obsessing over sounding <shudder> “articulate.” You’ve probably heard that line: People will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.
2
 Our egos try to trick us into thinking otherwise, into believing the perfect turn of phrase will unlock the power we seek. But this book, and indeed most of the work I do to help clients give themselves permission, is about using your voice to connect with your audience—so they feel things. So they feel connected to you, so they hear your ideas, so they do what you want, which might even be what they want too. And achieving this often has little to do with the words themselves.


But then, you can’t do it without words.


Whether it’s words chosen in advance or ones bursting forth in the moment, the act of speaking them aloud is a sort of 
birth. Hopefully less painful and requiring less gestation than actual childbirth, but a birth nonetheless. And as far as I’m concerned, delivering anything meaningful from the inside of our bodies out is miraculous.


So here’s my low-key radical take on content: it’s okay if the process of finding your words involves a bit of labor. It’s okay, in other words, to reject the goal of sounding articulate, with its accompanying whispers of 
easy, smooth, right, perfect
. Birth is messy and attempts to plan it are always folly. The words that come out will be the right words if they get your thought across.


But trusting yourself to find the words to fashion your thoughts into language usually goes better when you’re chatting with your friends than when you’re presenting your case to a bevy of skeptical colleagues. I can’t remember a single time I’ve frozen when talking to a loved one and couldn’t find the word I was looking for, or the wrong one came out by mistake. Because if it did, it didn’t matter. I instantly forgave myself, found it amusing, or asked for an assist. It likely didn’t even feel like a mistake; it felt like sharing a moment, which is one of life’s great pleasures. Organic conversation tends to tame entirely the chimera of “articulate.” (
Chimera, kai-MARE-a
: 1. A fire-breathing female monster in Greek mythology. 2. A thing that is hoped or wished for that’s illusory or impossible to achieve. Just saying.)


But then there are public spaces and high stakes, where instant forgiveness, joy, asking for help, and letting go can feel far less accessible. Maybe you fear judgment, or you fear being seen (or not being seen), or you fear you’ll mess up irrevocably and never live down the shame. Maybe you’re in the unenviable position of having to somehow represent every member 
of your sex or race or socioeconomic class, or speak for those who’ve been silenced, and the responsibility is terrifying.


I know this fear. And I know this: it can warp your connection to your language, alienating you from your own words. It can make the sound of your voice feel foreign and your words seem to float, untethered. What’s going on (you’re freaking out) and what you’re saying (some newborn idea) have nothing to do with one another, and the result of this mismatch is that you don’t sound like you anymore and you’re not really communicating much either.


I was once at a women’s conference where attendees had the chance to hop onstage if they were hiring and offer a thirty-second pitch about their company and whatever position they had available. A long line of women queued up and took the stage one by one. It was a parade of vocal discomfort. I watched woman after woman stumble through what she had to say, each one giving off strong get-me-outta-here vibes, while saying words but somehow … also not?


Look, in a world lousy with messaging about the right way to talk and old, played-out stories about what authority sounds like, we each have to 
work
 for a healthy relationship with our own speech. It doesn’t just happen. We each have to get curious about the concern that we’re going to “say it wrong” and question who even defined right and wrong. We have to get curious about the words coming out of our mouth and tend to them, lovingly, not because they’re perfect but because they’re ours. Everyone talks about “owning your voice,” but it’s not possible to own it without owning the actual process of expressing yourself. How do ideas, urges, and sensations on the inside become words on the outside? The process is fascinating, nonlinear, and unpredictable, just like birth.


To start, we each know tens of thousands of words. We sometimes make up new ones if we feel the need or if it makes us giggle, and we sometimes try out unfamiliar ones we’ve just heard or import ones from other languages. But for the most part, we’ve got a finite number. Sentences, on the other hand, are infinite. According to Dr. David Adger, professor of linguistics at Queen Mary University in London, “If you make up a sentence of any complexity and search for that exact sentence on the Internet, it’s almost never there. Virtually everything we say is novel.”
3
 Birthing a thought from the inside of us out has the power to create meaning where there was none before. And it almost always does.


When I watch people speaking who’ve truly given themselves permission, I sometimes feel the birthing process. I feel both the labor and the delivery. It’s breathtaking, this act of birthing a new thought and hoping it’s of value to others. But of course, as we fear, sometimes words fall short. Maybe you finally speak up in a brainstorming meeting and say, “How about—” and all eyes turn to you, you feel flush, your mouth goes dry, and nothing comes out. Or maybe you say a word you don’t mean and get blank stares in response. Where there could have been connection there is, instead, disconnection.


In these moments it can feel like your entire worth as a contributor to society hangs in the balance; that is a thought I have absolutely had. Even though, let’s be honest, our worth is never wrapped up in whether we find the perfect word at the perfect moment. But panic isn’t logical. And occasions when you lose your words have the power not only to feel debilitating but to stifle your sense of permission the next time around. Especially if you’ve got identity crap wrapped up in being perceived as well-spoken, smart, composed, eloquent, clever, de
pendable, always having the answers, or being put-together. <Raises hand.>


But this is the thing about communicating that no one says: What you’ve experienced, how you feel, and what you dream of 
do not come prepackaged into words
. Experiences, feelings, dreams: that’s literally your past, your present, and your future. The past lives in your mind as images. Feelings in your body as tingles or sensation. Our dreams and plans form as wisps of half-hopes we haven’t dared complete, or visions we glimpse as we stare into the middle distance. Of course, we don’t know how to articulate them using mere words. That’s not actually the point of words.


Words are not the thing. Words exist in order to 
get at
 the thing. Our job when we speak in public is to show up in front of others and be brave enough to find words in the moment so that our images, feelings, and plans reconstitute themselves inside one another. Our job is to gather some words together, hold them out, and ask: 
Does this work? Does this make meaning where there was none before? That’s
 the point of words. The imperfection is the action; it’s what makes communication surprising and alive and a collective effort.


Martin Buber, the twentieth-century Jewish theologian and philosopher, said, “Our relationships live in the space between us, which is sacred.”
4
 I believe words live there, too, in the space between us. After all, language is not mine and it’s not yours. It’s ours. It’s shared. We pluck words from our common space and string them together and check: Is this assortment of words working? Hmm, well, what about this one?


And it’s worth remembering that sometimes, rather than falling short, our words go long.


Maybe you had an aha moment when you first heard the 
concept of “gaslighting” or you learned the definition of 
duende
. Putting a word to a shapeless thing, it takes shape. It resembles other shapes, and we get to place it in the pantheon of 
things that have come before
. I laugh at the torrent of these moments I had freshman year of college when I took my first psychology class. Suddenly 
everything
 was an example of “pluralistic ignorance” or “cognitive dissonance.” Suddenly I was a Psych 101 zealot. But I couldn’t get over how satisfying it was that these words spun murky hunches into proven patterns of human behavior.


Naming a singular experience turns it collective, and there is, of course, power in the collective. Naming a lonely experience makes us less alone: See #metoo. Or digital blackface. Or the gender pay gap. Or phrases specific to your industry that hold communal power because your community has deemed it so (jargon, when used to include rather than exclude, has its plusses). Linguists know the knack words have, as Amanda Montell writes in 
Wordslut,
 to “legitimize experiences, as if an idea only becomes valid once it’s christened with a title.” Label it and it becomes real. Use a new word you hear and like, and you’re collaborating in the christening process. Crotchety types may lament new words entering common parlance, but I think grabbing the baton of a newly coined term and running with it is a generous act of civic life: the words you use may validate others’ experience. And the sacred space between us can become a truer reflection of those present.


If you’re anxious about losing your words in the hot seat, take just a moment before you open your mouth to jot down on paper words or phrases that will help you get your idea across, words that pack a punch. It might not be the most original advice to suggest writing down a few notes before you 
speak, but I’ve never heard anyone add the most important part: trust that the in-between words don’t matter. Let that shit go. What comes out will be right enough. It’s a birth, and people love babies.


Or there’s always coining new words or phrases yourself. (As my kid says, in the great neologism tradition of William Shakespeare, “When you make up a word … now it’s a word!”) Like Rebecca Solnit’s “mansplaining,” which surely spread because of just how satisfying it was to finally have a term for something real but not yet named. Or Priya Parker’s “pop-up rules,” a handy concept I didn’t know I needed till I heard it and it became immediately indispensable. Or the term “girlboss” morphing from a form of praise to a form of critique. My friend Liz Kimball says naming and claiming is a revolutionary act if historically we weren’t the ones to conquer land and plant our flag. Of course, I’m not big on conquering with all its toxic colonial connotations, but I am big on noticing the ways we might shy away from laying claim to even our own ideas. I wrote a note with “NAMING AND CLAIMING” in bold chicken-scratch after Liz told it to me and hung it on my wall while I was writing this book to remind myself to declare ownership when I had the chance. It’s definitely a practice.


Here’s an irony: When I work with actors, their job is to turn words on the page into spontaneous-seeming utterances when the camera’s rolling, and a good way to achieve this is by inserting a sort of struggle to find the next word. To sound, in other words, like real life. But in real life, we dream of hiding that struggle—the very thing that makes communication spontaneous. The very thing that makes it credible rather than contrived.


I’ve received so many emails from would-be clients con
cerned that they’re not articulate enough, wondering if I can teach them how to be, their anxiety glowing on the screen. They surely know on some level that forgetting a word or rambling isn’t life or death—but it feels like it. And first impressions do count. And how we’re perceived when we open our mouths is high-stakes. If we seem inarticulate, we might be dismissed as incompetent, scattered, ditzy, not worth anyone’s time. To be clear, when I say “we” here, I’m referring to those of us who sense we have something to prove. This obsession is not our fault, and we are not defective. We are responding to the reality of an experience that does not yet have a name: speaking without the privilege of the benefit of the doubt.


Those who put a premium on sounding articulate (you at your most critical, audiences at their most critical) are responding to a power imbalance: when you’ve got power, you don’t need to sound articulate. No one cares if you don’t. Name any hero of yours and I bet they’ve lost their train of thought in public, and I bet you’ve happily forgiven them, no-brainer. Will people judge 
you
 for fumbling, though? Yeah, maybe. Especially if you have melanated skin in a white-dominated culture, especially if you speak English as a second language or with an accent that sounds rural or strikes others as less educated, especially if you don’t have connections or cash or cachet. Biases abound. But is the solution to fear the fumble? It is not.


Perfectionism can paralyze us—and maybe that’s what the powerful want. But the opposite of perfect isn’t defective—it’s alive. Anna Deavere Smith has spent her career transcribing people’s real-life speech and turning it into art. She wrote in her book about politics and theater, 
Talk to Me,
 “I think we can learn a lot about a person in the very moment that language 
fails them. In the very moment that they have to be more creative than they would have imagined in order to communicate. It’s the very moment that they have to dig deeper than the surface to find words, and at the same time it’s a moment when they want to communicate very badly.”
5
 I love those moments. Start to notice what happens when someone you’re listening to struggles for how to articulate their next thought. Notice if you lean in. We may all hold biases, but I believe most of us also have biases 
toward
 honest speech. We appreciate something true more than something pretty.


The word “articulate” comes from the root 
articulus,
 a Latin word for small connecting parts. We can articulate our body, or we can articulate our ideas; both are about engaging simple components that, together, make something complex. In the case of speaking, monosyllabic words often get the shaft, but they are everything. “Yes we can” is and will always be more articulate than, say, “Let us remain confident in our commitment to the inalienable truth that in absolute terms, the likelihood of failure is vanishingly small!”


Maybe for you, “articulate” brings to mind those exceedingly polished people whose words effortlessly flow; maybe you associate the term with the biggest Scholastic Aptitude Test words you know, and it’s hard to believe that simple language can be better. I find a lot of clients carry a myth that formal speech is everywhere—that work is a formal space and part of being a professional or nailing the job interview or speaking at the podium is to conform to its formality and use big words to signal it. This myth may be stopping you from giving yourself permission to show up authentically in work contexts where it’s authenticity, actually, that would seal the deal. Say what matters like it matters, regardless of the words. 
Yes we can.


Practically speaking, formal language can be the dialect or code-switching difference between “walking” and “walkin’,” or “I’m going to go” and “I’mna go,” or avoiding idioms and swearwords versus betting the fucking farm. But its greatest distinction lies in decisions of sentence structure and word choice. “English is unique in possessing a synonym for each level of our culture: popular, literary, and scholarly,” says Bill Bryson in 
The Mother Tongue,
 “so that we can, according to our background and cerebral attainments, rise, mount, or ascend a stairway, shrink in fear, terror, or trepidation and think, ponder, or cogitate upon a problem.” In other words, we have a ton of English words that mean roughly the same thing and that seem to have stuck around only to offer extra layers of fanciness. (That’s my informal way of restating what Bryson said above. Call me a populist.)


I’m all for using fancy, show-off language when it serves us—to screw with people’s expectations, to take back our power, or to give us a tickle. But not to achieve some abstract formality we often don’t even need. Not when the attempt can leave us feeling like we don’t have the 
right words.
 If we’re in an emergency, we’re not going to tell anyone to mount or ascend anything, and let’s be honest, we’re not going to say “rise” either—we’re going to say “Go up!” And that has nothing to do with our cerebral attainments or our background.


I’m not aware of any studies tracking the proportion of spoken language that falls into each of Bryson’s three categories—popular, literary, scholarly—during, say, congressional hearings or TED Talks or your boss’s most formal address at that industry-wide conference. But I would bet that (a) it’s a healthy mix of the three, and (b) the moments that landed the best were utterances from the first category. As youth poet laureate 
Amanda Gorman told 
Vogue,
 she “looked to Abraham Lincoln or Frederick Douglass … or Martin Luther King, and the ways in which they used words to communicate the ideals of the nation in elegant rhetoric that [never] felt as if it was locked away in an ivory tower.”


Informal language, not formal, makes the world go round. Casual, conversational, simple language helps people connect. Unless you’re engaged in legal proceedings (one of the most formal of contexts for language, where the interpretation of speech is at its most humorless and every utterance is documented and dissected), you’ve probably got more leeway to speak informally than you think. Informal, however, is not the same as careless. Your words count, not because they’re impressive in and of themselves but because they’re your chance to be as accurate as possible in capturing what you mean for the specific ears you hope will hear them.


Accurate is not always about cold facts either. One of the most useful distinctions I’ve ever heard about word choice comes from progressive activist and minister Michael Dowd. He speaks of day language and night language, two modes of speech that serve different purposes. Day language, he explains, “describes what is measurably so, what is physically, consensually true.”
6
 Day language is hard, specific, facts, and data. Night language, on the other hand, “is the realm of poetry, myth, symbol, metaphor, and traditional religious language. It’s the language that inspires; it touches the heart, moves the soul, brings us to tears and calls us to awe.” Night language can help convey truths more accurately than facts ever can. And as you might imagine for these two modes of speech, each has its strength but each fits different scenarios. Consider if your audience or your industry has some ingrained 
assumptions about these different styles that you can either play into or disrupt. Do your people need facts or truths?


Final note: casual is not the same as mumbly. It takes just as much energy to speak informally as formally (though it may be more fun). Talking, at its most satisfying, is a full-body sport and English especially can be quite athletic. To get granular for a moment: some languages, like French, place equal weight on every syllable. 
En français,
 the word for “alphabet” is 
l’alphabet,
 pronounced lal-fah-beh (punch the air on each syllable to get the feel, right left right), and the result is that it can feel quite measured. But in English, most of the weight goes on the first syllable of that word (punch the air on 
al
). English speakers love strong and weak syllables so much that we’ll often minimize a vowel in the weak position to give the strong one an added oomph. In fact, the punch on 
al
 is punchier than any syllable in French. “Whaddya think” is an example of this phenomenon in English (“you” smooshes into a tiny 
yuh
 so more energy can land on “think”), or the fact that the word “our” in a phrase is usually pronounced like “are” instead of like “hour.” This strong syllable/weak syllable give-and-take is a move we make all the time when we’re not feeling self-conscious.


In fact, the more deliberate we are with our thoughts—when we really know what we’re saying and why we have decided to say it—the more we naturally energize our mouth muscles on the syllables that matter and conserve energy on the ones that don’t. We make our point like a boxer. And our audience feels the impact.


I’m into milking words—I’m an English major, for God’s sake—and I certainly have nothing against using elaborate language when the mood strikes. But the 
right words
 are the 
words that work. The right words are the ones that say something true, that feel good coming out of your mouth, and that move your listeners.


So how do you make language feel good? Yeah, it’s not obvious. But it’s not as abstract as it sounds, and you can do it with what you’ve already got. It is about recruiting your body—your breath, your heart, your juicy middles, your wild imagination, 
and
 your articulator muscles in your mouth. It is about 
using
 your language to stay in the moment, even when you’re nervous, so you can be present for the birth of your words. Here’s how.


My client Amina was running for city council. She’s got young kids, thick, wavy black hair, and a teacherly assuredness. But prior to announcing her candidacy, she’d never spoken to a large room full of people in her life. And when she came to me, she had a prepared speech written by committee and less than a week before she had to deliver it to a massive crowd. I asked her to stand at one end of the long table we were working at and say it aloud. She took a breath and launched in, reading it since it was still so new. I took notes, flagging sections that sounded more like written English, body language that betrayed her discomfort, and builds that weren’t yet building. She reminded me of so many other women trying to come across like a “person who has authority” but who end up coming across as … not quite a person. A bit robotic. A bit absent. A bit at the generic monster’s whim. As though hiding is the only path to power.


We began by rewriting sections of the speech to make it feel more conversational; that helped. We swapped out words that were more formal than necessary for ones that would in
spire connection. (Even “hi” and “thanks” instead of “hello” and “thank you” can prime an audience to relate to you better.) And we rewrote sentences that felt too formally structured. Written speech is organized around the unit of the sentence. But spoken speech is organized around thoughts, which can be a single word (“Plastics!”), or multiple sentences strung together or a collection of sentence fragments an English teacher would raise an eyebrow at, like the following. This is a moving moment from Scarlett Johansson’s 
Finding Your Roots
 episode where she processes seeing images of family who never made it out of the Warsaw ghetto:




Wow. That’s sad.
7
 [Tearing up] Sorry. And I promised myself I wouldn’t cry. But it’s hard not to. That is crazy. I mean, you really couldn’t imagine the horror. It’s just so … crazy to imagine—Now I know why you put the tissues there. [Laughs] It’s crazy to imagine that Saul would be on the other side, selling bananas. On Ludlow Street. And how different it would be, being in America at that time. The fate of one brother versus the other. Makes me feel more deeply connected to that side of myself. That side of my family.




That’s how we talk, and it should be. It’s what saves us from having to find the perfect words: we get to rely on groups of words to do the real job of communicating our thoughts. Linguists call it “chunking,” which might be my least favorite word in the English language—but it’s such a useful concept. (Why didn’t they go with bunching or bundling? Can I call it bunching? Yes, I can.) Bunching frees us from the shackles of the all-important word, but also from the period. Periods just don’t 
matter in spoken speech until we’re truly ending a thought and taking a pause or relinquishing the floor. Bunches are the reigning unit of meaning.


And bunches are notated not with any specific written punctuation but with oral punctuation: a breath. I transcribed ScarJo above using periods where I thought I heard breaths. But look to speeches on big stages (and where the camera doesn’t cut away as much) to see breaths that mark bunches and bunches that make meaning. Take, for example, Michelle Obama’s 2008 Democratic National Convention speech, starting around ten minutes in. I’ve notated the primary breaths with parentheses—and you can see they come just when it would behoove her to take a micro pause and gather the next thought:




All of us driven by the simple belief that () the world as it is just won’t do () that we have an obligation to fight for the world as it should be () and 
that
 is the thread that connects our hearts () 
that
 is the thread that runs through 
my
 journey () and 
Barack’s
 journey () and so many 
other
 improbable journeys that have brought us here tonight () where the current of history meets this new tide of hope () and you see 
that
 is why I 
love
 this country.
8




Try saying it out loud, taking in a breath at each of those ()’s, and don’t go on until you feel an impulse to speak. Breaths are not just everything I spoke about in 
Chapter 1
. They’re also punctuation; they’re a unit of meaning. They mean 
I’m here.
 They mean 
I’m letting what I just said affect me, and collecting myself for what I’m about to say.


But Amina, back in my office, kept falling into the same vocal pattern over and over, reading sentences instead of communicating thoughts, and the result was that each sentence sounded like the one before, regardless of its content. Each had a sort of “Duh-duh-DUH-duh-duh? Duh-duh-DUH-duh-duh?” quality (the question marks denoting an upward inflection that sounded like the baked-in “do you know what I mean?” from 
Chapter 2
). Listen for this when you hear people reading out loud. For most of us, when it’s not our words (and often even when it is), real work is required to inhabit the thoughts, to own each bunch out loud and breathe when one ends in order to energize the next one.


We’ll get into what that work is below. But here’s your word of warning: If you skip this step, if you haven’t gotten behind the thoughts or imagined the images or found the why, it’s way too easy to disconnect the sounds coming out of your mouth from the thoughts they were meant to convey. And without that connection, dramatic moments won’t feel dramatic, funny bits won’t land, and stories won’t move your audience. As listeners, we can tell the difference between a word that sounds abstract and one that is connected to meaning. We allow for this when we hear someone reading aloud something that isn’t theirs—the meeting minutes or a quote, perhaps. But we expect better when we’re listening to a human present their own ideas at a podium or into a lens. The social contract is that when you are in a position to speak in front of people, you own what you say.


In Amina’s case, she had come to me at the point in the process where the speech was still brand-new, still being written. Of course it didn’t live in her yet. There are two ways to go from there to a gorgeously delivered, lived-in speech. The first 
is time. If you sit with your words long enough, speak your speech out loud as you walk around your living room, visualize your audience, and breathe, you’ll likely get somewhere good, eventually.


The second way is more technical, but if you’ve never thought about language this way, it’s gold. As Kristin Linklater wrote, considering the earliest of human speech, “It is inconceivable that when the mouth first started to make words it did so in a manner divorced from its familiar exercises of chewing, biting, kissing, sucking, licking, snarling, lip smacking, and lapping. All these were practical activities, with sensual rewards and palpable side events of pleasure for most of them, and anger or fear for one or two. Words have a direct line from the nerve endings of the mouth to sensory and emotional storehouses in the body.” Not how we think about language today; maybe that direct line has been cut or short-circuited. Let’s link it back up.


As Kristin reminds us, words are sensual. They can play on our senses, if we let them. Try “thunder” out loud. Feel your tongue between your teeth, feel the air escaping above and below your tongue, like it’s blowing in the breeze. Think about hearing the rumble in the distance when you’ve been in a drought. Smell the rain. Smell the faint burn of lightning. Feel the walls shake. Feel wet clothes on your body. 
Thunder
.


Now try “catastrophic.” Or “honey.” Or “belong.” “Onomatopoeia” is the word that captures the concept of when sound and meaning merge. 
Drip, bang, bash.
 But really, all words have the potential to be onomatopoetic if you let them. And when you let a word like “belong” mean something to you—the two syllables emerging from you laced with how the soul feels when it finds its companions, the second syllable 
lengthened by yearning—you’ll hit your listener somewhere else. And yourself too. Our bodies respond to our own words when we use language well. We cue our words; our words cue us. We shape our words; our words shape us.


So, let’s warm up those articulators, aka the parts of your mouth that move and shape sound. Start with a little tour of your own mouth: touch your top teeth with your tongue, sliding the tip of your tongue against the bottom of those teeth. Next push against the inside of your top teeth with your tongue, and then farther up, feel with your tongue the ridge where your teeth connect to the gums, and where the roof of your mouth begins. Continue up, feeling the roof of your mouth—hard palate first with its little grooves, and then farther back the soft palate, the more slippery part that goes up when you yawn. Now push that tongue against the bottom teeth, and then ease into a more relaxed version, the 
y
 sound as in “yes.” Feel the middle of your tongue flatten and the back bunch up to create the 
y
. Now say “yesterday.” Notice if your lips head toward pursing for the 
ter
 and back out to a sort of smile for the “day.” Gently place a hand on your jaw and notice how it shifts from the beginning of the word to the end. Is it less movement than for the word “yawn”?


Vowels are the sounds we make when our mouth stays open and the air continues to flow out uninterrupted; consonants are the sounds we make when we shape our articulators to get in the way of that air. 
B, p, m, v, l, g, sh, th
 … Make those sounds while looking in a mirror if you want to see some shapes in action, and notice which articulators are moving to get you there. All bunches of words have both consonant and vowel sounds, so you’re constantly opening your mouth and then maneuver
ing your articulators into new positions and then opening your mouth again. It’s kind of incredible. Those speech muscles of yours, pulling and pushing your articulators into place rapidly throughout the day, do a lot of thankless work, so take a second to thank them.


Inevitably, however, your accent and personal speaking style have strengthened some muscles and let others atrophy, so after thanking them, drag ’em to the gym. Here’s an exercise you can do every day to counter the effects, or just before a big moment to loosen those speech muscles up: Start by yawning as big as possible, massaging your jaw joints on either side of your face with your fingertips, and then stretching out your tongue till you feel a pulling sensation at the back.
9
 Purse your lips and send them in a circle in one direction and then back in the other. Stretch out any facial muscles around the mouth or cheeks that seem to need extra love. Blow through your lips and trill them if you can; if you can’t, it usually means you’re still too tense around your lips. Take big, silly bites out of a fake apple and then try again. Now say “wah wah 
wee
 wah” five times slowly, and then as quickly but accurately as you can. (I’ve italicized here and below the sound that gets the emphasis in the phrase, so you can feel the rhythm.)


Now say the following, building up to doing both lines on a single breath:




puh puh 
pah
 // buh buh 
bah
 // tuh tuh 
tah
 // duh duh 
dah
 // kuh kuh 
kah
 // guh guh 
gah


guh guh 
gah
 // kuh kuh 
kah
 // duh duh 
dah
 // tuh tuh 
tah
 // buh buh 
bah
 // puh puh 
pah




You can tell that the first set of consonants rely on lips, second on tip of the tongue, and third on the soft palate—this warms up all of the above.




Try 
guh
 guh luh luh four times fast


And then 
luh
 luh guh guh four times fast.




Then back and forth as many times as you can before it gets super sloppy:




guh
 guh luh luh // 
luh
 luh guh guh // 
luh
 luh guh guh // 
guh
 guh luh luh, and so on.




For American English speakers, this one is surprisingly hard; our tongues need the workout.


Now say “The lips, the teeth, the tip of the tongue; the tip of the tongue, the teeth, the lips.”


Work your way up to being able to say it three times on one breath. Are you pronouncing the 
v
 sound in the word “of”? No judgment, but try it both ways.


Say “Fearless bears surely roar far.”


What’s happening with those 
r
’s at the end of the words? Depending on your accent, you may be using more muscle tension than you need (called a “hard 
r
”), or you may pronounce only an open vowel sound where the 
r
 is written (a feature common to dialects of England, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Boston, New York, and some of the American South). Experiment with how to say this phrase as easefully but clearly as possible. And especially if you pronounce a “hard 
r
” here, practice sending the energy out at those 
r
’s instead of 
letting it get stuck in your mouth. I don’t care about the sound itself, but I do care that you’re sharing it with us rather than keeping it in.


Speak the following (150-year-old!) poem by Arthur O’Shaughnessy, making sure you voice all the way to the end of each phrase. (Do all those plural 
s
’s in the spelling sound like 
z
’s coming out of your mouth?)




We are the music makers,


And we are the dreamers of dreams,


Wandering by lone sea-breaks


And sitting by desolate streams


World losers and world-forsakers,


Upon whom the pale moon gleams


Yet we are the movers and shakers


Of the world forever, it seems.




Did you notice where you breathed? Try it again, bunching each thought-bunch and punctuating it with a breath. Perhaps you breathe at the end of each line, or every other line. Fill just the room you’re in—not too loud or too soft.


Now consider what “music” means to you. And “dreamers” and “dreams.” The words “lone” and “desolate.” Consider what it would mean to forsake the world. Think about how the moon makes you feel. And the roguish delights of being a mover and shaker. You don’t have to overact here; this isn’t about doing bad children’s theater. But it is about letting the words evoke images and feelings, letting them mean something to you. (Here’s a silly example: You likely pronounce “bong” differently when you’re thinking of a church bell than when you’re 
thinking of 420 paraphernalia. The first gets more length, as you hold on the 
ng
 sound, and you’d never pronounce it that way when you’re at a dispensary. Meaning affects sound.) And as you do this work, alone, giving yourself permission to be playful, trust that when you speak the text aloud again, even in front of others, that work will linger. Please try this with any favorite bit of language, or maybe even something you wrote.


Now try saying something that isn’t written in advance. “My favorite part about my job is ___,” and see if this warm-up affects your spontaneous speech. Are you feeling the words? Are you still breathing? Are you still filling the room? What’s happening with your pitch?


Often, it’s phrases we say all the time—what we do for a living, or perhaps a logline for a script we’re trying to sell or an idea we’re talking to everyone about—that can accidentally get disconnected so the words coming out of our mouth stop feeling alive. Dulled by overuse, phrases that once sounded good, and felt good to say, now feel like nothing. Amina’s cold reading on the one hand and this speaker-fatigue on the other end up with similar results: if we haven’t gotten behind the thoughts or imagined the images or found the why, we won’t communicate well. But if we’ve forgotten the original thoughts that led to those words or lost the images or neglected our why, we won’t either.


If this happens, get practical. Throw new energy toward feeling the words and bring to mind images that relate to the words you’re saying. If it’s not the first time you’re birthing these words, it’s still the first time they’re hitting air 
here
. For 
these
 ears. Make the labor and the delivery count. Sweat a little. I can’t help but remember, as I write this, the week I pitched the proposal for this book—fourteen times over a 
three-day period, over Zoom since we were newly into the pandemic. I told the same stories and covered the same material, engaging with a new Brady Bunch of faces each time. But following my own precepts, I dared myself to invest in speaking like it was the first time every time because of course it was, for them. It felt exhausting and fucking great.


If you’re on the hook to deliver a brand-new speech, like Amina was, and you’re planning to memorize or read from a teleprompter, I want to help you prepare. Especially if you’re writing it yourself, you’re probably thinking about the what, the who, the why, and the in-what-order—and when that’s all sorted, it can feel like the job is done. But of course, it’s not: a beautiful speech doesn’t come alive on its own. Here’s a step-by-step process I’ve developed for lifting a speech from the page so it lives in you, and then lives outside of you.


I call it the Four 
S
’s. The order doesn’t matter so much, but doing each step justice does. I’ve used it with CEOs, politicos, and movie stars; it works. Actors call this sort of preparation “scoring,” which is a lovely reminder that, like music, when we notate and get analytical and practice, practice, practice, it’s so we don’t have to on the day; we can just play from the heart.




1. SENSE: Even if you wrote the speech yourself, what does every word and idiomatic expression mean? What does it 
really
 mean? Use a dictionary but then take the time, too, to sit with that word or phrase and make it personal. If English is your first language, it’s easy to skip over this step—but it’s essential. If we’re using a term of art, is it really, or is it jargon? Is it vague or is it specific? Check if what you’re saying is too formal or “scholarly” 
because you’re trying to play at something you’re not, or if it’s more like written speech than spoken speech. Check that all the words or phrases you’re preparing to say hold value for you. If not, swap them out for ones that do. We are not here to waste time and space. Hold yourself to a high standard of comprehension: I know what I’m saying, I know what it means, and it means something 
to me
.


2. SOUNDS: Practice speaking aloud phrases from your speech. Notice sounds that repeat, whether it’s on purpose or not, and feel what happens when you use those sounds in rapid succession. They may very well 
do
 something to you—affect your connection to the words, affect how you hold your body. Try Adele’s line “I can’t keep up with your turning tables.” Say it aloud. Feel the 
k
 sounds at the beginning and then the 
ur, ur
 and the 
t
’s near the end. Can you give the 
t
’s a little flick, like you’re pushing someone away with your words? Because English is so influenced by both Romance and Germanic languages, you can always explore which sounds feel round and gentle and which feel sharper. Like day and night language, both are useful. Both hold power. (There’s a reason our favorite swear words are almost all Germanic. The 
f
 and 
k
 of “fuck” are quite satisfying for our articulators. Bring some “fuck” articulator energy into the 
k
’s and 
t
’s in the Adele line above and see if that evokes something.) Do this work out loud with everything you’re preparing to say and let yourself be surprised. Stand up and walk around and experience the version of speaking sounds, words, whole thoughts, where your entire body comes along for the 
ride. Trust that your words won’t become stale or tepid with overuse as long as you decide to bring the heat when the time comes to deliver them. And while you’re here in this step, make sure you can pronounce everything with confidence, including the name of your host or the institution you’re speaking at, so there’s no question mark in your voice. Otherwise, consciously or not, you will attempt to hide when you get to that word: you’ll mumble or get quiet, or inadvertently cover your mouth or your heart. In order to own your words, you must know what they mean 
and
 feel good saying them out loud—and I mean it. If you have a regional or English-as-a-second-language accent and you worry you won’t be understood, ask someone in your life who you trust will be constructive, and then listen to how they say it. Practice slowly. Make an audio recording and listen back. There is no magic trick to linking unusual sounds together except saying them till your mouth muscles learn the movements and know the dance—and quieting your critic mind so your mouth can do the work it was made for.


3. STRESS: If words don’t all matter equally, which stand out? Good public speaking requires that you 
do something
 to make each word that matters pop. Almost all spoken communication revolves around what words get emphasized; we just do it so much we take it for granted. Here we do it on purpose.


Try this: “I never said she stole my money.” But say it out loud as flatly as possible, trying not to indicate emphasis at all, on any of the words. Try again, but even less. 
It’ll probably sound like a vague negation, or not much of anything. Each word in the sentence has an agreed-upon meaning, but strung together and delivered flatly the collective meaning seems just out of reach. Like, are you being defensive? Trying to set the record straight? Avoiding a confrontation? Or are you asking for one? Is this the beginning of an argument or the end of one?


Pitch variation is complicated (see 
Chapter 4
!), but bottom line: flat speech reads as confusing. Even if you have a point of view about what you’re saying, 
you’ll sound like you don’t.
 Helpful if your point of view will incite a conflict you’re desperately trying to avoid. Deeply problematic if you’re going for something bold.


That nebulous phrase about stealing money takes on clearer meaning if we try again and this time emphasize the “she”: I never said 
she
 stole my money. (Oh, so someone else did it? Cheeky.) Or if we emphasize the “stole”: I never said she 
stole
 my money. (Ah, so she acquired it fair and square? Call off the search party.) Or if we emphasize the “my”: I never said she stole 
my
 money. (Wait, then who’s the victim here?) Or if we emphasize the “money”: I never said she stole my 
money
. (Well, now the plot’s really thickened. What’s actually gone missing?) Linguists like to use this sentence because it’s a pretty straightforward example of the power of emphasis, but the reality is that nearly every thought we utter aloud in English works like this—or rather, it can, if we don’t let it die a droopy, inconsequential death by flat delivery. The words that matter are usually the new information words, or the words that challenge a previous statement or assumption. (“Why? Why 
not
?”) They’re technically called the opera
tive words because they operate the whole thought. In writing we can italicize; what’s the out-loud equivalent?


If you play a musical instrument, the answer will sound familiar: volume, tempo, tone, and pitch. You can get louder, faster, funnier, or higher on any given word. Or their opposites. You do this in real life all the time: away from a podium, each of us (with variations for accent or native language) stresses words based almost exclusively on meaning. Practice doing it with your prepared speech. Play.


4. SENTIMENT: If you’ve done the first three steps, this one should already be happening, but I want to be explicit: let your body feel things while you speak. Let it respond to the sense and the sounds and the rhythm of stressed words. Even if your talk is about third-quarter earnings. Even if it’s a pitch to take on a project you aren’t sure if you care about yet. Find what you care about and say it like you care about it—animating your language using the three steps above. This final step is a reminder that emotions are good and to use them with purpose. This is a reminder that caring is more powerful than the power move of seeming blasé. This is a reminder that your point of view matters. What do you know for sure? What do you want? How does it make you feel to express it?




Sense, sounds, stress, and sentiment. You might very well find something fresh in the moment when you’re in front of your audience, picking up nonverbal feedback from them. But trust that if you do the Four S’s in advance you won’t have to think this technically when you’re delivering your speech.


Hot tip: Look back at the section of Michelle Obama’s speech I included earlier in this chapter. You’ll see I italicized the operative words. But now look at the final thought-bunch. “And you see 
that
 is why I 
love
 this country.” Check out the emphasis. Her statement would mean something quite different if she had said “and you see that is why 
I
 love this country.” It would have implied she was comparing herself to someone else. But instead, she emphasized “that” and “love”—suggesting that her love of country was in question. Indeed, as she describes in her memoir, 
Becoming,
 she delivered this speech during an excruciating moment when previous words she’d spoken had been misinterpreted and her criticisms of America were dominating the news, endangering the narrative around both her and her husband.
10
 Here, on this stage, she doesn’t reference the media flurry directly. She goes high. But with the emphasis of a few key words, she references it indirectly. She challenges assumptions. And if you watch the video you’ll see the crowd cheer, and the cheer build as the 20,000 audience members connect the dots. They are with her. The accusations she’s fighting against hang in the space between them, unspoken, thanks to her subtle use of emphasis. The mark of sophisticated, nuanced communication among people with any shared history at all, even shared cultural history among strangers, is that it’s full of implications. Once we’re conscious of this, we, like Michelle Obama, can use it.


Watch, too, a few minutes of soccer star Abby Wambach’s famous 2018 Barnard commencement speech online and see if you can underline the operative words—not just the most fun words, but the ones that supply new information and move the argument forward. Abby begins a section of her speech by telling us that “like all little girls, I was taught to be grateful. I was 
taught to keep my head down, stay on the path, and get my job done. I was freaking Little Red Riding Hood,”
11
 which she refers to as “just one iteration of the warning stories girls are told the world over.” Then she relates it to her own life:




I stayed on the path out of fear, not of being eaten by a wolf, but of being cut, being benched, losing my paycheck. If I could go back and tell my younger self one thing it would be this: “Abby, you were never Little Red Riding Hood; you were always the wolf.”




Did you catch the contrasting words “never” versus “always,” and “Little Red Riding Hood” versus “the wolf”? These sorts of word-pairs are called antitheses, and you can find these types of opposing ideas everywhere we communicate; our brains often organize around pairs, whether we notice it or not (see?). But how would you say those words out loud to make sure your audience 
feels
 the opposition?


And, no, you definitely don’t need to be Abby or Michelle to pull all this off. Once Amina got the hang of this, she suddenly sounded like what she was saying was important, and important to her. Operative-word work helped her remember her why, propelling her from important idea to important idea. She found her fire. She lit up. And she was what I lovingly call “a person” up there, rather than that robotic alternative. And she did win her election for city council; in fact, now she’s the mayor. How’s that for antithesis?


I hope the work above helps you discover the version of yourself that uses language and owns it, but I also hope that the occasions where you have to stick to an exact script are rare. I 
hope you get to use language 
and
 think on your feet, surprising yourself with how you articulate your thoughts in the moment, smiling at the chimera and letting her rest in some cave far away from your spotlight. I hope you’re ready to honor your ideas enough that they matter more than the words.


When my friend Stephanie Ybarra took over as the artistic director of Baltimore Center Stage, she was the first woman of Latin descent to run a major American theater company. When you hear her speak, she sounds like a leader. She sounds exciting, and fresh, and real. And like herself.


I asked her how she prepares to speak in front of a crowd, and she told me that she learned a lot from observing her old boss, a charismatic man whose remarks she would prepare. Although he’d often go in with material he’d already said at hundreds of functions, he would electrify a crowd (when she told me this, she mimed everyone taking their shirts off like he was a rock star with feverish groupies). “It’s not what he’s saying,” she recalls thinking, “because I’ve heard that shit over and over—it’s the same message. But how he says it sounds authentic, it sounds off-the-cuff every time he says it.” So she practiced. For years. “First I started with a script, and then I went down to bullet points, typed. And then bullet points, handwritten. And now, legitimately—including at my own father’s funeral—bullet points on the back of my hand.”


I asked her if she ever feared being inarticulate if she’s only relying on bullet points, or if she ever dreaded losing a word mid-thought. She nodded in recognition, then replied thoughtfully, “At this point, I’ve gotten so much good feedback about the authenticity of my public-speaking style that I feel much more comfortable taking a pause or struggling in plain sight. There’s something about that … people appear to really dig.”


Good public speaking is simply not the same as pulling off pre-programmed automaton delivery. We dream of making no mistakes, dropping no “uh”s, finding the perfect turn of phrase at the perfect moment to come across as more articulate than we’ve ever been before. It’s probably Winston Churchill’s fault. Or those old standards erected in his image that put us at a disadvantage and make us wish to inoculate ourselves against mistakes. But struggling in plain sight is a gift to your audience, and authentic is more important than articulate. We want you up there; the operative word is “you.”

















8


Heroism




From my point of view, which is that of a storyteller, I see your life as already artful, waiting, just waiting, and ready for you to make it art.


—Toni Morrison
, Wellesley commencement address, 2004
1




It started with a meme. I was scrolling aimlessly, needing an escape; it was summer 2018 and stories in the news were so much. A callousness I hadn’t totally believed was possible now seemed too rampant to contain. I got back to my hotel room after wandering Washington, D.C., on a day off from filming the 
Wonder Woman
 sequel and thought, 
Dear lord, we need a real-life hero.
 I had joined protests and planning meetings and helped raise funds, and saw how exhausted everyone was, how despairing, like our empathy meters fritzed out at 10, and I worried what would happen if the helpers burned out. My own body was brittle and overtired and I was constantly distracted by new pains. A friend told me my light had gone out—and you can’t unhear something like that.


Then I saw this meme on my phone, and just stared at it, releasing a shaky sigh. It was a Venn diagram made with two simple circles. One said, “what breaks your heart most about the world,” and the other, “where your skill set lies.” The overlap, according to this anonymous image, is where we’re called 
to serve. I’d seen versions of this idea before—it’s the Japanese concept of 
ikigai,
 meaning life’s purpose or raison d’être. There’s a famous line sometimes attributed to Aristotle about finding your vocation where your talents and the needs of the world cross. But I needed to be told specifically that my heartbreak held meaning, that it was pointing me in a direction. And I needed the assignment: What exactly broke my heart 
most
?


I didn’t know it then, but at the same time, the progressive organization MoveOn.org was looking to pair each of their chosen candidates—a sea of mostly women, mostly running for the first time—with a coach to improve both the content and delivery of their stump speeches. When I got back to L.A., a friend called to ask if he could refer me over to them. I believe my response was a squeal.


Over Zoom, on an August afternoon, I settled into an onboarding session with two fellow coaches who’d already started working with these fledgling candidates. They told me about the biggest problem they were seeing so far, besides nerves and general public-speaking anxiety. Turns out, these newbies all had a habit of skipping over their origin story—not where they were born and raised, not that kind of origin, a coach named Monte explained. But the moment they had realized that 
they
 could represent their neighbors—that they might be the hero they’d been waiting for. Were they in the shower when it happened? Were they having a conversation inside their head? What was it? What was the struggle? What were they up against? What had they realized mattered most in that moment of decision? How had they come to: 
Fuck it—I’m in.


Yes, I thought, listening to Monte. This makes so much sense. Sharing your aha moment offers a singular chance to reveal your character to your would-be constituents. 
Here’s 
where I’m from
 holds little power compared to 
Here’s what I did in an impossible moment.
 It was the first time I had heard the term “origin story” used this way—if anything, I’d associated it with superheroes and bloody crimes in dark alleys or lab accidents gone wrong. But this conversation was, quite unexpectedly and absent a single radioactive spider, my own origin story. My own aha. It completely changed my life.


I will tell you what I mean. But first, I want to talk about you. There are two questions that come up more than any other when coaching. The first is “How do I handle nerves?” And the second is some variation on “I’m so bad at talking about myself—how do I get better at telling stories from my life and promoting and all that gross me-me-me stuff?” It’s the same two issues those candidates faced in going public for the first time. Maybe it’s the same two issues you struggle with too.


They seem like opposites. Nerves tend to hit when we accidentally make it too much about ourselves and we obsess over how we’ll come across or how we’ll do. A resistance to the me-me-me stuff stems from not making it 
enough
 about ourselves, from downplaying our accomplishments or dismissing our stories because we think they’re too insignificant. If you’ve gotten this far in the book, you won’t be surprised to hear my diagnosis: I smell patriarchy.


I believe both impulses come from a lifetime of learned insecurity around claiming our full membership in public life. With nerves, it’s a matter of feeling as though you’re not worthy of being seen and heard. In telling your own story, it’s … a matter of feeling as though you’re not worthy of being seen and heard. If you’re on a stage or in an office presenting your project, there’s a good chance you’ve earned your way in—but there’s also a good chance you don’t entirely believe it. Maybe 
these impulses take the form of a taunting voice in your head that says, 
You’re not ready
 or 
You’re no expert
 or 
You’re not good/interesting/important enough
 or 
Your story is boring
 or 
No one wants to hear about you
 or 
Who are you to …?
 I hear them in my head. My clients hear them. Those candidates, brilliant and worthy future leaders all, they heard them. This is what breaks my heart about the world—because it keeps those who deserve power out of power. And this, it turns out, is also where my skill set lies.


Maybe because I’m not only a coach—I’m also client zero. Here’s a Samara quirk: Most of the time I’m a grade-A storyteller. With friends, and even with relative strangers if I’ve been able to get a read on them, I 100 percent trust that my anecdotes will kill. In response to someone else’s share, in dialogue, in context, organic tales just flow out of me. But if I can’t read the room or I’m speaking into a void (ahem, badly orchestrated Zoom webinars), suddenly nothing feels organic. I shrivel up. I go blank. I can’t remember anything that’s ever happened to me. I second-guess stories that I already know work. 
Pretty sure you’re a total weirdo,
 I think to myself, 
and your stories are irrelevant. Nobody wants to hear from you.


The best explanation I’ve heard for this (I’m just going to say it) dumb voice in my head comes from Dr. Carol Gilligan.
2
 She’s a psychologist and ethicist who wrote the groundbreaking 1982 bestseller 
In a Different Voice,
 and is now in her eighties with Woodstock hair and a rebel spirit like the inextinguishable Olympic torch. When Dr. Gilligan was a young researcher at Harvard with only male mentors, she discovered that all the studies about adolescence focused on boys, as though their experience was not just the default but the sole experience of growing up—and no one seemed to notice. As 
she writes in her follow-up book, 
Joining the Resistance,
 “Psychologists had assumed a culture in which men were the measure of humanity.”
3
 She regularly observed “so-called normal, everyday conversations in which men spoke as if the omission of women was irrelevant or inconsequential and women overlooked or excused the omission of themselves.”


And so she dug deep into the experience of female adolescence, interviewing girls about the decisions they were confronting before and during puberty, listening to their answers, and charting, among other things, when the 
I-knows
 of childhood morphed into the 
I-don’t-knows
 of their preteen years. She discovered that she could track when the language girls used seemed to reveal their growing sense of obligation to everyone but themselves. In other words, she could hear their inner turmoil at becoming or resisting becoming a “good girl.” She named the process their “initiation into patriarchy.” And it generally happened around age eleven or twelve. In 
Joining the Resistance
 she shares eye-opening transcripts of her subjects, full of vocal hedges and fragmented thoughts, like this from a thirteen-year-old named Judy who was asked why she didn’t want to talk about her family life:




I don’t know, because I don’t—I don’t know. I mean, I do know. It’s just like—I can’t explain—I don’t know what, how to put it into words …. I don’t even know if I know what it is. So I can’t really explain it. Because I don’t know. I don’t even know like in my brain or in my heart what I am really feeling.




I wonder if this feels familiar. A friend recently left me a message saying, “I feel as though my brain receptors for figur
ing out what I want to do and how I want to do it and when I want to do it—it, it, they’re all broken. They’re broken in my head somehow—like even when I have a quiet moment to think, I still can’t think.” Dr. Gilligan says this initiation is “driven by gender and enforced by shaming and exclusion. Its telltale signs are a loss of voice and memory, an inability to tell one’s story accurately.” Well, that’s real real. The things that should belong to us most—our own memories, our own life—feel increasingly hard to hold on to the more we become “good.”


As Dr. Gilligan and her colleagues listened to girls in the thick of this transition, they heard humans who had found through trial and error that “they must silence their honest voices in order to be accepted and loved.” Boys get the message to choose independence over relationships, and so many boys suffer from loneliness as a result; girls get the message to choose their relationships over all things and compromise their connection with their own inner voice as a result. Their inner knowing becomes harder to know, and, conveniently, ignoring it is rewarded. My friend Liz Kimball posted on Instagram after Simone Biles dropped out of the Olympics, asking us to consider “How old were you the first time your body or heart or mind said no and you pushed through anyway, because that’s what the culture that raised you taught you to do?”


Maybe these days this means you suck it up and don’t insist on credit for something you’re proud of because it’ll bruise egos that are used to coddling. Or you muscle through when you should rest. Or you’re paralyzed over whether to go on a trip with friends because you’re so used to thinking about your kids’ needs, you have no idea how to interpret your own. Or you don’t share good news because you don’t want to brag and 
make others feel bad—in fact, you may not even feel all that good about the good news, linked as it is with the prospect of jeopardizing relationships. We want to be accepted and loved at all costs. We put ourselves last and it almost feels good, because it makes so many other people happy. We, not all of us but many of us, have raised people-pleasing to an art form and, as Dr. Gilligan reminds us, it’s not our fault. If we wind up as perfectionists and people-pleasers it’s thanks to “the crusades of a culture profiting from your not enough-ness,” says Kimball.


All of which is terrible for our public-speaking skills. We must get up there feeling like we are enough—more than enough—that we are there to save the day. We must get up there feeling like a bona fide hero, in fact. The hero they’ve all been waiting for. Which requires that we face down a lifetime of muffling our inner voice, “good girl” demurring, and internalizing insidious messages that it’s virtuous to avoid being the center of attention. Because it turns out the solution to overcoming nerves 
and
 the solution to not feeling good talking about ourselves is actually the same thing: the secret is to focus on helping our audience.


The secret is to make it about them.


Sounds like people-pleasing, right? But there’s an invaluable distinction between offering help at your own expense to accommodate others and offering help from your bounty because you’ve got what they need and it feels great to give. One depletes you; the other fills you back up. One makes you feel like a martyr; the other, a hero. Speaking publicly is an act of service, but it’s only sustainable if you trust that what you’re serving up is absolutely fantastic. Then, you get back as much as you give.


“Make it about them” forces each of us to reckon with how much we actually believe that what we’re serving up is fantastic. How much we believe we are of worth. But let it be known, even just deciding as a bit of a thought experiment that you’re there to help and that you’ll succeed has the power to hack your nervous system, reorganize your mind, and rejigger your body’s chemical cocktail for less inhibition and more permission. Here’s the deal: according to evolutionary scientists, we have a long history of interpreting eyes on us as a threat. Prehistoric humans literally registered other people watching them as predators, and thought, 
Danger! Danger!,
 triggering a corresponding physiological response: shallow breathing, flushed face, higher-level brain functions short-circuiting in order to fight, fly, or freeze instead.


“So today,” says Sarah Gershman of Georgetown’s business school, writing in the 
Harvard Business Review,
 “when we speak in front of a group and feel the eyes watching us, we feel painfully visible, like a caveman exposed in daylight,”
4
 and we do whatever we must to protect ourselves. But since running off the stage isn’t socially acceptable, instead “we construct walls between ourselves and the source of danger—in this case, the audience—to repel the attack and blunt any danger.” I’ve seen this over and over. One such wall is not making eye contact and relying too heavily on your slides or your notes. Another is flattening your voice, so you hide what you’re feeling but also end up hiding everything else: your pitch and tone, your unique musicality, your ability to express yourself. You find ways to be there, but not really be there.


But if you consciously shift to thinking, 
I’m here to help my audience,
 you can disarm the panic button. Sounds tiny, right? But when we choose to look out at our audience with kindness 
and offer what we’ve got with generosity, we actually trigger an entirely different physiological response. The walls come down and we free ourselves to be ourselves. Which is not tiny at all.


Stop and think about what it feels like to show up for a friend who’s going through it. When you see them in pain, you might jump in and share some parallel from your life. I’ve asked roomfuls of women in workshops: “Who here hates talking about themselves?” and all hands go up. But we talk about ourselves fluently when we sense that there’s a clear outcome it’ll achieve; if sharing what we went through will put a friend’s tough day in perspective, ease their suffering, or help solve their problem, we do it without another thought. I bet you wouldn’t hesitate to mention your credentials if they were directly applicable: “I actually have a background in child psychology” or “I was a professional dancer” or “I’m certified in CPR.” It’d feel ridiculous to hold back if someone were choking in front of you. It isn’t bragging; it’s generosity. It isn’t about you, it’s about 
them
. In my online parent community, we save one another’s asses every day, whether it’s via threads about raising little humans or negotiating tricky career moves or insisting that our partners partner better. Reading and responding is a constant opportunity to flex this particular muscle: What have I got that could be of use?


We see someone in need; we help. This is a generalization, of course, and plays on tropes of women as nurturers that Dr. Gilligan enumerates. But there’s good reason for us to participate in this exchange of kindness, beyond putting others first: when we help someone, the gratification is almost instantaneous. Our friend cheers up or we get a Like, our bond is strengthened, and dopamine releases in our brain. Suddenly we’re actually a little high. We likely get a hit of oxytocin, the 
“love hormone” that makes us feel cuddly and boosts trust but that also helps our hearts: it turns out oxytocin triggers our bodies to release the chemical nitric oxide into the bloodstream, which reduces blood pressure and gives our hearts a break. We see someone in need; we help; it pays off. What’s not to love?


And it gets better: studies show oxytocin dampens the fight-flight-freeze response. “Oxytocin, the compound known as the love hormone and the cuddle chemical, deserves a new nickname,”
5
 announces 
LiveScience,
 “the fear fighter.” Oxytocin heads right for the amygdala, the fear center of our brains, and tells that killjoy to chill—in fact, it may be an evolutionary feature especially designed for moms. Science journalist Luke Yoquinto explains that “the brain speedily delivers the hormone oxytocin—which new mothers have in elevated levels, starting with childbirth—to where it’s needed, freeing them to protect their young.”
6
 But men are perfectly capable of getting that oxy high as well when they offer help, according to an international study by Drs. Nina Marsh, Dirk Scheele, and their colleagues in the 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
.
7
 They may just not be incentivized to pursue it. (In the dad version of that online parenting group, I’m given on good authority, they mostly just try to outdo one another posting funny memes. I am telling you, the patriarchy helps no one.)


The trick to advocating for yourself and your most precious ideas when you’re speaking in public is to scale up this exchange—the need, the helping, the hormone hit—even if you don’t see their pain. You can use all the other tools in this book to prepare for that moment, but they won’t settle the chaos within or allow your voice to ring out without this final tool. Step into that room with the intention to help. Make it about 
them
.


My favorite TED Talk is “The Art of Being Yourself,” and in it Caroline McHugh, a Scotswoman with mischief in her eye and an international coaching business teaching individuality, tells the story of feeling shy as a young girl as she prepared to perform for a family gathering. She remembers her mother giving her a no-nonsense nudge, saying the job is to entertain; no one’s interested in her. It left Caroline with, as she puts it, spectacular disregard for being the center of attention. “Since then, I’ve 
never
 been the center of attention,”
8
 she says from the stage of TED. “You’re the center of mine.”


You know that thing where it’s easier to get a job when you don’t really want it? “Care less” seems like an obvious takeaway, but that’s not quite it. Rather, when we aren’t desperate to prove ourselves, we’re outward-focused, we’re seeing and hearing, which ironically helps us be better seen and heard. Public speaking is fundamentally about being looked at and heard, but 
it is also fundamentally about looking and hearing.
 When you feel yourself slipping into nerves or starting to bail on telling a story, feel the floor under your feet, smell the room, hear the breathing, look at the people you’re there to help. Make the others in the room the center of your attention. And if the faces are inscrutable, if the room is intimidating, and it seems ridiculous to think that they could possibly need your help, think, 
What if they’re choking and they’re just hiding it well?
 If you decided to believe it, how many systems of power would crumble? For that reason alone, you might as well try it.


“But where’s the evidence?” the dumb voice in your head will heckle you. You know what, give that voice a name. Maybe name it after your least-favorite person—maybe it’s that guy who represents everything that’s wrong with the world—and 
then practice, even just for a day, calling him out whenever you hear the voice. “Dude, no. Just no. You don’t have my best interest at heart.” I know this may be easier said than done; but it is also easier done than we sometimes think. We help our friends when they need us by revealing our own vulnerabilities, so they know they’re not alone, and by celebrating our resilience, so they remember their own. We help by telling our stories for practical reasons: it’s the surest way to make our point. We let ourselves be seen and heard 
because it will help
. Our public deserves this too.


Maybe heroism is the problem. We can’t very well step onto the stage as our audience’s hero if the concept feels outdated or made for other people. We can’t tell stories from our own life like we’re the hero in them if heroic stories are the stuff of legend and 
Star Wars
. Whether you’ve read Joseph Campbell or not you’ve likely got a sense of the classic structure of the “hero’s journey”: it’s epic; it’s a test that often requires physical force in order to pass; it’s a thing men go on. A client named Parker, who was embroiled in an ugly lawsuit because of how she was fired, first told me the story of what went down 
from her former boss’s point of view
 rather than from her own. I recognized it at once because I’ve seen it before; often we can’t narrate our own journeys because we can’t recognize them as such. We can’t tell our story accurately. It’s the same reason we seem to like high-powered women more when they have a job than when they’re publicly vying for a better one, a statistic that’s trotted out every time a woman runs for president. The act of vying puts her on a quest, and we don’t know how to compute that. Men go on quests; women … support? Wait at home? Tempt them off course?


Well, we’re long overdue on blowing up that paradigm. And the solution isn’t just 
Wonder Woman
. Heroism, bravery, and doing good against the odds belong to all of us. The hero’s journey has nothing to do with gender and nothing to do with the size of the journey either. It can be as tiny as an aha moment in the shower. In his Nobel lecture in 2017, novelist Kazuo Ishiguro described a theme he noticed around important turning points in his life: “Often, they are small, scruffy moments. They are quiet, private sparks of revelation.”
1
 And does the act of moving through one of these moments with grace qualify as heroism? Well, what do you consider heroic? Does it require muscle and glory? Or is it listening closely to your inner knowing and doing the next right thing? Dare we call that heroism too?


Maybe we balk at casting ourselves as heroes because good-girl conditioning allows little space for pride in our accomplishments, but maybe it’s because on some level we’re suspicious of heroes and the source of their pride. As Liz Phair sings, “He’s just a hero in a long line of heroes / looking for something attractive to save. / They say he rode in on the back of a pickup / and he won’t leave town till you remember his name.”
10
 This kind of heroism is masculine-coded. It’s about vanity and violence and promoting yourself over the group. It’s about fame for the sake of fame.


Maybe Hollywood is the problem. As actor and writer Brit Marling put it in “I Don’t Want to Be the Strong Female Lead,” an essay my friends sent around like a whisper network when it hit 
The New York Times
 in early 2020, “There are centuries of trial and error inside the ‘hero’s journey,’ in which a young man is called to adventure, challenged by trials, faces a climactic battle and emerges victorious, changed and a hero. 
And while there are narrative patterns for the adventures of girls—‘Alice in Wonderland,’ ‘The Wizard of Oz’—those are few and far between, and for adult women, even less so.”
11
 As Jia Tolentino says in 
Trick Mirror,
 surveying the whole canon of Western literature, stories about girls growing up portray them from “brave to blank to bitter,” that is, if—and this is a big if—they survive to adulthood at all. Marling faced a career playing Hollywood’s shiny new solution to telling stories about adult women: the “Strong Female Lead.” And she rejected it. “It would be hard to deny that there is nutrition to be drawn from any narrative that gives women agency and voice in a world,” she writes. “But the more I acted the Strong Female Lead, the more I became aware of the narrow specificity of the characters’ strengths—physical prowess, linear ambition, focused rationality.” Why mess with the traditional hero’s journey when you can just recast it with a lady and put her in a sexy tank top?


God knows, I’ve coached on enough scripts the world doesn’t need. The gatekeepers who green-light projects in Tinsel Town only know how to tell these sorts of hero’s-journey stories, Rebecca Solnit suggests in her 2019 essay, “When the Hero Is the Problem,” and so inevitably they’re the only types of tales we hear over and over. “The standard action movie narrative,” she says, “requires one exceptional person in the foreground, which requires the rest of the characters to be on the spectrum from useless to clueless to wicked.” If we don’t recognize ourselves in the heroes, we’re relegated to identifying with one of those other categories, which doesn’t exactly set us up for success. Maybe, muses Solnit, the real problem is that 
communal
 heroism, the feminine-coded kind, that functions not by putting individuals on pedestals but by distributing 
power more evenly, entails sitting through a lot of long meetings, and meetings don’t play well onscreen.


Quite a bit of what I consider heroism would make for unconventional movie fodder—building consensus in a meeting, making a small decision with a ripple effect, standing up for someone, changing your mind once you know better, choosing to talk about your shame rather than stay silent, taking responsibility for something hard to own—but these are all excellent bases for stories we can each tell, if we let ourselves.


When U.S. congresswoman Ayanna Pressley’s hair began to fall out a year into her term, she held the secret close, afraid to go to sleep at night because she knew she’d find chunks of hair on her pillow in the morning. She questioned the vanity of just how acutely our hair feels like it defines us, but she felt ashamed nonetheless. And then she decided to make a bold move: to trust that a story of hair loss is a story worth telling. She made a video for 
The Root
—and looking right into the lens, without quick edits or fancy production, she simply spoke. She spoke of the joy of finding her look on the campaign trail (Senegalese braids, and the cultural implications therein—as she says “hair is political”)
12
, and of her rapid descent into baldness, the despair that accompanied the diagnosis of alopecia, the relief of knowing, and her still-raw vulnerability as she attempted to make peace with her smooth head.


If you watch the video, you’ll see her unscripted, thinking aloud on camera, finding her words in the moment, and holding herself accountable for saying true things. You’ll see her tell the story, beginning, middle, and end-ish, whatever she’d call where she is now in the journey. You’ll see that she lets us see her and hear her. And not just that: she makes it about us. 
She releases her own private shame and offers us a chance to release our own. “I’m not here just to occupy space,” she says in the video, “I’m here to create it.” This is how we tell our stories. This is heroism. And this is the new sound of power.


“They must silence their honest voices in order to be accepted and loved,” Dr. Gilligan had observed of her female subjects. This speaking-honestly-versus-being-loved thing is tricky in our personal lives—I don’t want to dismiss how tender that is, the tiny concessions we make to keep the peace at home, or white lies we tell to protect those we love, and the cost if we didn’t. Perhaps it’s even tricky in your professional life, if your job requires that you do things that don’t sit right with you. But as evidenced by the 
Little Mermaid
 myth, in the long run trading your voice for love is a crap bargain. When you get to do work that matters to you, presenting in public or pitching what’s close to your heart, your honest voice is the very thing that will make an audience love you. We in your audience know Instagram filters and ghostwriters and party lines; we expect a disconnected voice speaking pleasant words that uphold every status quo there is. As Priya Parker says in 
The Art of Gathering,
 “we spend much of our time in uninspiring, underwhelming moments that fail to capture us, change us in any way, or connect us to one another.”


Against that expectation, speaking truth is power. It captures us, changes us, connects us. I think of X González, taking the mic three days after seventeen of their classmates were gunned down at their high school, with their shaved head and fresh grief. I think about them speaking unapologetically, directly calling out the media and politicians, repeating, “We call BS.” X brought unvarnished truth, impolite and unpretty and forged in fire. They got pushback and hate. They were mis
taken by no one for a “good girl.” But they also became a symbol of heroism around the country, for saying something true when they could have said something pretty.


Another example is Alicia Keys hosting the 2020 Grammys like she’d invited all 16.5 million of us into her living room. Standing at her keyboard about to launch into a parody song she’d written for the occasion, she made eye contact with the crowd and spoke at full volume into her mic, “And can I also have a little more piano in my ears, please, so I can properly serenade the people.” She could have gone for pretty, too, and tried to pretend she didn’t need something she needed to make her presentation better. But she said what was true instead. And it endeared her audience to her even more. (A recovered people-pleaser, it took years, she says in her memoir, 
More Myself,
 to start asking herself, “What’s in it for me?”)


As a friend in a twelve-step program shared with me about all the stories she’s told and heard in church basements and social halls: if it’s not true it’s not useful. And this is the point—
this
 is what we must practice if we want to tell our stories accurately. It’s what works for me when I go blank. We must believe that we tell stories 
to be of use.
 When we talk about ourselves and our life, it feels like me-me-me. But it’s really you-you-you. And it’s 
really
 us-us-us. Anthropologists say that storytelling is central to human existence and a feature of every known culture on Earth. According to 
The Art of Immersion
 author Frank Rose, it involves “a symbiotic exchange between teller and listener—an exchange we learn to negotiate in infancy.”
13
 That exchange can be anything from pure entertainment to lesson to laugh to feeling less alone. But what it’s not is one-sided. What it’s not, as long as we intend to be useful, is irrelevant.


Casting yourself as the hero in your stories and then sharing them is a revolution you can join just by opening your mouth. When we tell these sorts of stories instead of glossing over them—the quiet ones, the collaborative ones, the ones about topics that don’t show up in ancient mythology or even in 
The Wizard of Oz,
 the ones in boring hotel rooms without flashy endings—we give audiences the chance to hear them, and that changes everyone’s relationship to their own brand of heroism. Like Ilyse Hogue suggested, the most important preparation we can do to speak in public is to be proud of our life. And if we acknowledge the life we’ve actually lived, the setbacks and mistakes, what was our fault and what wasn’t, if we take the time to own all the parts, then we can turn them into offerings.


What stories can you tell? First, help yourself out by thinking through what your audience may need. Research who you’re speaking to in advance. Collect demographic data if it’s a big group or read press if it’s someone with an online presence. Ask mentors, consider trends in the industry, brainstorm with a friend about what help your customers or investors or future constituents might really need to make their lives better. Consider what car they drive or subway they take, what potholes they pass on their way to work, what hurts and what they’re proud of. Imagine what they read and watch and love and laugh at. Fantasize enough that they no longer feel like strangers.


You can also begin by asking them questions once you’re there—questions you really want the answers to. I help clients build this into their presentations all the time and do this at the beginning of my own workshops, too, for a few reasons: to gauge my audience, to encourage them to participate and hear their own voice out loud, and to hear one another. “Why did 
you come to a workshop about using your voice?” They give me a few answers, and voilà, my talk is a dialogue. A question I offered a client who was running for office in a district roiled with corruption: “Show of hands. Who here trusts that your elected official has your best interests at heart? Okay, real question—who here wants to?”


As you consider your stories and what your audience needs, it can be liberating to use a simple structure to start. Sarah Hurwitz, first Barack Obama’s and then Michelle Obama’s speechwriter during all eight years in the White House, shared with me a handy way to slide into any presentation: Start with gratitude. As Sarah says, “Thank you so much to this person and that person …” And then tie that impulse into celebrating the audience’s story. “And most of all, thanks to all of you.”


Sarah told me that that’s not enough, though. It’s important to say something truly meaningful about your audience. “Like if Mrs. Obama is speaking to a bunch of nurses, she’ll say, ‘You guys are extraordinary. Here’s what you’re doing every day.’ And it’s really important to show in those moments. Everyone always says show, don’t tell—no one does it!” Do not rattle off a long list of pretty adjectives. As she put it with a dollop of tough love, “Blah-blah-blah, no one cares. What’s better is: ‘You know what? Right now, in this pandemic, you’re the one sitting by the bedside of people gasping to breathe, holding their hand, holding up an iPad so they can speak to their loved ones. You’re the one commuting an hour a day, risking your own life, taking the train in.’ … You’ve got to really make it so we can see it.” This is showing the audience that you understand their need. This will make whatever comes next feel relevant 
to them
.


Finally, answer, so why are we here today? Sarah says it may 
well be “because I care about the work you’re doing, and here’s how I want to support you ….” Maybe you even have a story about nurses, in this case, and you should definitely tell it. I asked Sarah how Michelle Obama would figure out her specific offer for the specific room when it wasn’t so clear. She said, begin by asking yourself, 
What is the truest thing I can say here?
 Below are some more questions I find generative, as you prepare:




What do I admire about my audience that I want to make sure they know?


What do I think they need? Do they know it or not?


What’s my favorite thing to talk about here?


What lights me up?


What makes me laugh or feel playful?


What would breaking the rules a little bit mean?


What would breaking the rules a lot mean?


What is the truest thing I could say if I had unlimited courage?


What do I know for sure?


What do I wonder?


What am I curious about that I can only learn from my audience?




And it always helps to ask, What am I offering? Okay, and what am I 
really
 offering? When I began the proposal for this book, the offer was a treatise on public speaking from a feminist perspective. But what was the 
real
 offer? Coaching. Not facts but a huge hug of it’s-not-your-fault and you-are-not-alone validation, which is what I know actually frees our voices and allows for joy in communicating. Often, our overt offer is 
in day language, but our real offer is in night language and speaks to our audience’s deeper needs—deeper than they may even be aware of. Truths, more than facts. This is so fundamental that if all you have is two minutes before you speak and you’re freaking out, breathe and gently ask yourself, What am I offering—and what am I really offering? And then, of course, dare yourself to believe you’ve got what they need.


Even with corporate clients who know their offer intellectually because they’ve mapped out pain points by committee, they often haven’t done the work to internalize the answers to the extent that they actually believe they’re doing something that matters. And it shows. They’re embarrassed to take the lead on a project, awkward with all eyes on them. I coached a man named Xavier who was the new CEO of a billion-dollar tech company. He had an accent from growing up outside the United States, but that wasn’t the problem at all—in fact, the company was using his accent as a decoy to get him a communication coach (a thing I only learned once I was in the room). The real problem was that he was an introvert with some serious fixed-mindset mentality: he had told himself he was bad at speaking in public. He hated it, and he wasn’t interested in being persuaded otherwise.


I asked him what he was thinking about while preparing to get up in front of his employees for the all-hands meetings he had to run every Friday. He told me, “What information I have to share” and “how much I don’t like this part of the job.” Needless to say, resentment doesn’t play well. But more to the point: the resentment was about him. He was thinking about himself, not about his audience and how each of those real humans in the room could best be served. What they needed, as his employees. Or what he could offer, as their boss. And what 
he could 
really
 offer. He didn’t realize he could ask himself more generative questions, use the opportunity to connect with his employees—and honestly, have a way better time up there.


For me, after that onboarding session with the MoveOn coaches, I ended up working with a bunch of women running for office for the first time, many of whom are still serving today. And I saw over and over how helping them pinpoint their aha moment gave them instant 
duende.
 Like, boom. Telling a story of decision made them come alive when they spoke in public; it allowed them to truly show up when they showed up. And I realized: That’s it! That’s my Venn-diagram overlap. Sitting in one of those sessions, with a magnificent young candidate named Emily who dodged her story until she didn’t, I had a full-on aha: I need to help more women show up in public, I thought. I need to help those who’ve been left behind by the old story of what power sounds like change that story. That’s the work. Because us, together, no longer hiding, vocally or otherwise? Showing up as whole people who’ve given ourselves permission to speak the music in our souls—we can change what power sounds like. Which will change who has power. Which will change the world. So I said yes to Princeton when they asked if I’d speak about women’s voices and yes to coaching friends, which became yes to coaching strangers, which became a new business and a podcast and a book and a calling—my bid to use the skills I have to ease my heartbreak about the world. I could 
feel
 my light turn back on.


I love that story. But this is one I don’t usually tell: Six years before those midterm elections, to the week, I had gotten married, honeymooned, and then promptly left my new husband to fly to Denver and canvass for Barack Obama because a col
lege friend had rallied a few of us to help in a swing state. We went door to door, chatted with potential voters, made sure they had a plan to get to the polls, listened to their concerns. I remember feeling awkward, not always having the answers, but giddy to be there and connect with total strangers and be part of something way bigger than me. I remember oodles of stapled spreadsheets and cheap snacks and asking to borrow a proper winter jacket from a kind Denver native. I remember a surprise rally when Obama came through town that weekend and I volunteered at the gate, letting people in and sharing the thrill with each of them. It was not as glamorous or influential as coaching actual candidates for office, but we turned Denver blue that week. Alone at the L.A. airport on election night, waiting on the curb for my ride, my phone pinged that Obama had won Colorado. I burst into tears, sobbing so hard that more than one concerned passerby asked if I was okay. Was I the most heroic member of the Obama reelection team? Not at all. But that’s the thing, I realized, as I recalled this story that I hadn’t considered worth sharing: heroism isn’t competitive, we don’t have to be the most anything. With humility and perspective, we must nonetheless practice centering ourselves in our own narratives, wresting heroism into our own tales, not because they’re the most heroic but because they’re ours.


Mine your life for stories. Here’s my cheat sheet on how.




1. Find your valleys. Motivational speaker and master storyteller Lisa Nichols teaches that if we hoof our way out of a valley in life, it serves us. But if we talk about it, it serves others who are still in valleys of their own. When we share stories, we multiply their value. What valleys have you been in? How did you get out?


2. Find drama in the little things. As writer Boze Herrington writes, “Re-enchant your life by making the mundane exciting. You are not ‘going to CVS,’ you are visiting the apothecary to buy potions. You are not ‘running an errand,’ you are doing a side quest. You are not ‘feeding the birds,’ you are making an alliance with the crow queen.”
14
 Tiny moments can serve an outsized purpose, and, as Boze reminds us, wonder and delight deserve attention too.


3. Find drama in the unconventional. Look for the ways that your stories played out the way they did 
because
 you are a woman or 
because
 rooms of power weren’t built for you, so you built something new. Let yourself consider problems you solved using tools like empathy or collaboration, plot points missing from classic hero stories. In 
Cassandra Speaks,
 Elizabeth Lesser asks what if “next to the Vietnam War memorial there was a similar wall with thousands of names of the people who have honed other ways of dealing with conflict—like maybe communicating, forgiving, mediating? Working for justice so that the economic and social conditions that spawn unrest are transformed before they explode?” Search for stories in the world that speak to this kind of heroism—but search yourself as well.


4. Get specific. We love specifics. On the campaign trail and again during the 2020 Democratic National Convention, Elizabeth Warren told a story:


One night my Aunt Bee called to check in. I thought I was fine, but then I just broke down and started to cry. 
I had tried holding it all together, but without reliable childcare, working was nearly impossible. And when I told Aunt Bee I was going to quit my job, I thought my heart would break. Then she said the words that changed my life: “I can’t get there tomorrow, but I’ll come on Thursday.” She arrived with seven suitcases and a Pekingese named Buddy and stayed for sixteen years. I get to be here tonight because of my Aunt Bee.


The story is powerful because it reveals a moment of crisis and what she did next, but it works especially well because of the specifics: Thursday. Seven suitcases. Pekingese. Buddy. She could have said, “I needed childcare and my Aunt Bee came to help”—that’s the version any of us might tell if we let the dumb voices run the show. But because of the details, Senator Warren beamed images from her mind directly into ours.


Dr. Uri Hasson, a professor of psychology and neuroscience at Princeton, explains the science behind this exchange in his TED Talk “This Is Your Brain on Communication.” He uses sample audio of a comedian sharing a setup without even getting to the punch line—just a reminder that stories truly don’t have to be particularly dramatic or sad—and shows with visuals that when listeners’ brains are scanned while listening, the same patterns and shapes appear in their mind as appear in the mind of the speaker. 
We sync with our audience
. Dr. Hasson calls our brain’s ability to transmit and receive other people’s memories, dreams, ideas, and stories like this “neural entrainment.”
15
 It’s like a mind meld. If we 
share a story with enough details, we can literally transfer the brain activity in our mind into the minds of our listeners—almost like they’re living the story themselves.


5. Do the work of developing the narrative. Sometimes a story pops out of us fully formed with a beginning, middle, and end. But mostly we’ve got a collection of moments, when we look back at our valleys (or mountaintops or low-stakes hikes). Real life takes a little more finesse to turn it into what we’d recognize as a story. If you don’t think of yourself as “full of stories” that may be because you haven’t finessed those moments yet. As Toni Morrison says, “Make it art.”


Consider one such moment and ask yourself: What was the problem? What was on the line? (That’s the beginning.) How did you solve it? Did you 
do
 something? If so, did you know it was the right thing to do, or did you take a wild stab? Did you ask a friend and sit with your choices and not know, before you knew? (That’s the middle.) What did you learn? How has it changed you? (That’s the end.) Begin a list. Maybe five aha moments you’ve had. Add to it over the next week—they don’t have to come right away. And then develop them into something with a beginning, middle, and end, even if it doesn’t feel organic yet.


6. But also, and this is important, fuck it. If all that work works, great. But if it makes you feel disconnected from your story, let it go. It is 
yours,
 after all. Allow the story to play on you, and have feelings about it. And don’t forget, those feelings can be delight or joy. Just make it 
matter to you. As Ishiguro also said when he accepted his Nobel, speaking pointedly to a roomful of global tastemakers, “The next generation will come with all sorts of new, sometimes bewildering ways to tell important and wonderful stories. We must keep our minds open to them, especially regarding genre and form, so that we can nurture and celebrate the best of them. In a time of dangerously increasing division, we must listen.” Keep your own mind open to your own ways of telling stories.


7. Finally, don’t dodge. Notice the instinct to deflect and demur. Notice if you try to leave out details because you worry you’ll be boring or sound self-involved. Notice if you leap to making it universal right away, using the editorial “you” instead of putting the story in the first person. Tell the story, the actual story. If it bores you, okay, don’t. If it’s too close and you’re not ready, don’t. But if it excites you or makes you feel things, tell it. If there’s any chance it’ll help the listener see you, or see themselves better, tell it. I believe talking about ourselves is 
required
 to truly help others, so you’re not doing anyone any favors if you hide.




Dr. Dacher Keltner, the Berkeley scholar, reminds us that “stories aren’t just the territory of films and novels. They punctuate our daily lives in jokes, friendly exchanges, accounts of the day at family dinners, and bedtime stories children eagerly anticipate at night.”
16
 The opportunity to tell them and join the revolution is waiting every time you say yes to speaking in public.


The opportunity to be the new sound of power is waiting too. Take it. We’re here for you, and we need to hear from you. Just like AOC. Like those women who won their districts. Like Simone Biles. Priya Parker. Valarie Kaur. Emily Nagoski. Rachel Rodgers. Greta Thunberg. Even Carol Gilligan and Jane Goodall and Mary Beard and Maxine Waters (you don’t have to be young to bring something new). I listen to them speak and I think: Thank you for the reminder. I, too, can sound sure but loving. I, too, can scare myself with the audacity of my call for change. I, too, can be playful and mischievous and unabashedly humanist and heart-forward and serious, all.


Hearing the new sound of power—voices that reveal a life—is galvanizing. It’s inspiring. It makes me want to rise up and expand out. It makes me want to light up the sky. It makes me want to reveal myself more and speak to the part of you, my reader, that’s your most hopeful, longing self, full of possibility.


So, hi. I speak to your possibility, not to your fear. Your fear is always welcome to come along, but I’m speaking to your possibility. Is taking the stage with bravery and joy a practice you’re committed to? Then practice. Find opportunities not just to get up there but to do the work ahead of time—to learn how you prepare best. Maybe you do a breath warm-up and you take your time with it. Maybe you prime yourself for power and encourage yourself to take up space. Maybe you surround yourself with people who make you feel you are indeed enough and indeed worthy and your stories kill. Maybe you think about your audience and what they really need and make it about them. Maybe you think about the Venn-diagram overlap and settle into how your skills can address what is, to you, the greatest heartbreak in the world. Maybe you put on kickass 
“permission to speak” lipstick and dance to a power ballad and declare it your new entrance music. Maybe you watch your favorite TED Talk and visualize yourself up there. Maybe you define heroism just broadly enough that it includes you.


Try it all, knowing some rooms you won’t warm up (but maybe you’ll still do what you came to do) and lots you will. Knowing if you really show up when you show up, you’ll say something bold in a voice you recognize as your own, and you’ll ask things of your audience they didn’t dare consider when they woke up that morning. You’ll use your speech to build the world you want to live in. For you, for me, for us.













Acknowledgments


Thank you to all my magnificent clients, but especially Hannah, who first thought to ask, Carrie, Cindy, Chris, Sashka, Mia, Ruth, Anita, Emma, JJL, Pom, Rachel, Suki, Édgar, Emily, Deborah, Ashley, Gal, Juliet, and Jordana. Sharing time and space and sound with you made me better, and I hold your stories dear.


Thank you to the greatest of friends: Tara, Em, Al, Amy, Amanda, Anna, Nana, Andrea, Eric, Sarah, Jo, Elisa, DFC, Joe, Peter and Dr. Stef, Annie, and Anna. And to Courtney, Shawnta, Belle (title credit!) and the whole Whiteboard Wednesdays crew, Cat and Mark, Neelamjit, Marie, Amy, Vikki, and Lauren for early brainstorming. I always say we need safe spots to be bad at something before we’re good, and you gave me that.


Thanks to my generous readers: Nikki McNight, Shanea Dangerfield, Senator Mona Das, Dr. Alisa Angelone, Tovi Scruggs-Hussein, Jenna Reback, Ron Carlos, Robin Galloway, Amanda Brandes, Liz Femi, Carrie Gormley, Alanna Thompson, and Natalie Laine Williams. You all made my heart swell and cheeks blush, and the book way better.


Thank you to June Diane Raphael for first asking me to write on this topic, and Jessi Klein for your life-changing intro 
(that was some magical sisterhood shit right there). Thank you to Joel Silberman for scheming. Thank you to Sadaf Khan, my researcher and idea-bouncer and soothsayer; I cannot wait to read your book. Thank you to Tara Copeland Eastwick for your eleven-o’clock number. Thank you to my literary agents, David Kuhn and Nate Muscato, who encouraged me from the start to speak in a voice that is shamelessly, utterly, wantonly mine. And to my dream of an editor, Libby Burton, who told me she’d hold my hand but really held me in the greatest of ongoing long-distance bear hugs through pandemic drama and crappy first drafts (fortunately, this hug came with robust marginalia). Thank you as well to Lydia Yadi, Aubrey Martinson, and the incredible teams at Crown, Penguin Random House, and Penguin Business UK.


I’m also endlessly grateful for these remarkable women, who’ve inspired me and conspired with me: Malika Amandi, Jamison Bryant, Shima Oliaee, Hadar Shemesh, Katharine Hirst, Lucy Cooper, Esmé Weijun Wang, Steph Green, Sarah Hurwitz, Liz Kimball, Lori Snyder, Chris Bubser, Jen Levin, Amanda Montell, Viv Groskop, N. Chloé Nwangwu, Dr. Reena Gupta, and Ilyse Hogue. For the education of Jennifer Armbrust, Rachel Rodgers, Carmina Becerra, and Geeta Nadkarni. For the mentorship of Kate Wilson, Thom Jones, Cicely Berry, Lynn Soffer, Ursula Meyer, Stephen Gabis, Francie Brown, Diane Kamp, Val Lantz-Gefroh, John Neffinger, and Jane Grenier. And for the community of HODG, the Shmillies, and the Pile.


Thank you to Monica Anderson for telling me, “Write what makes you feel good.” Andrea Peneycad for telling me, “Go where it’s working.” Dr. Anne Charity Hudley for saying, “Write something that honors the memory of those that have 
died from this and every virus.” Mr. Mote, my high school English teacher, for always nudging me toward more dangerous theses. Glennon Doyle for saying, “You don’t sing because you have a new song; you sing because you have a new voice.” adrienne maree brown for saying we have to learn to “make justice and liberation the most pleasurable experiences we can have on this planet.” And Rebecca Traister for saying, “Women’s anger diagnoses social injustice.”


I’m grateful to my grandmother, who wanted me to read her every word in the final weeks before she turned 100. My mom for always reminding me who I am, and my dad for always being proud of who I am; thanks for bringing me into the family business, you two.


And to my kid, who’s a total mensch, and my husband, who’s a true partner. Patrick, thank you for keeping me in memes, clean dishes, and love.













Notes


INTRODUCTION: THE NEW SOUND OF POWER


1
 
“What we need”:
 Mary Beard, 
Women & Power: A Manifesto
 (Profile Books Limited, 2017).


2
 
“
Look at me
”:
 Bertrand Russell, Nobel Prize Speech, 1950, 
https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/1950/russell/lecture/
.


3
 
“monetization of selfhood”:
 Jia Tolentino, 
Trick Mirror
 (Random House, 2020).


4
 
“In the end”:
 Martin Luther King, Jr., “The Trumpet of Conscience,” Steeler Lecture, Canadian Broadcasting Company, 1967.


5
 
Navigating what bell hooks called:
 bell hooks, 
Writing Beyond Race: Living Theory and Practice
 (Routledge, 2013).


1:
 
BREATH


1
 
“I am willing”:
 “Emma Watson—One Young World 2016,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=elbqER_ZrLQ/
.


2
 
arena that’s not designed:
 Tamika Mallory, speaking at a workshop hosted by Higher Heights Leadership Fund, July 11, 2020.


3
 
“Greetings, America!”:
 “WATCH: Kamala Harris’ Full Speech at the 2020 Democratic National Convention | 2020 DNC Night 3,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JijFLcbIqMs
.


4
 
“Perfectionism is another form of hiding”:
 Seth Godin, speaking on the 
#AmWriting
 podcast, 
https://amwriting.substack.com/p/episode-236-shipping-your-creative-35c?s=r
. Further reading: Seth Godin, “Perfectionism (Has Nothing to Do with Perfect),” 
Medium,
 November 17, 2020, 
https://sethgodinwrites.medium.com/perfectionism-has-nothing-to-do-with-perfect-157f87861b46
.


5
 
“that primal act of mobility”:
 Henry David Thoreau, “Walking,” 
Atlantic Monthly,
 1862.


6
 
Although there are hundreds of theories:
 Bill Bryson, 
The Mother Tongue: English and How It Got That Way
 (William Morrow & Co., 1990).


7
 
Social mores began to shift:
 Marien Komar, “Department Stores Are Basically the Reason Women Were Allowed in Public,” 
Racked,
 February 9, 2018, 
https://www.racked.com/2018/2/9/16951116/department-stores-women-independence
.


8
 
“silent, self-effacing”:
 Judith Mattson Bean, “Gaining a Public Voice,” in 
Speaking Out: The Female Voice in Public Contexts
, ed. Judith Baxter (Palgrave Macmillan, 2005).


9
 
“the promptings of ambition”:
 Catharine Beecher, 
An Essay on Slavery and Abolitionism, in Reference to the Duty of American Females
 (Henry Perkins, 1837).


10
 
“not only cease to bear fruit”:
 Congregationalist Ministers of Massachusetts, Pastoral Letter, Brookfield, MA, June 27, 1837.


11
 
“Solid things come and go”:
 Elizabeth Lesser, 
Cassandra Speaks
 (Harper Wave, 2020).


12
 
“Our foundational narratives”:
 Maria Tatar to Manisha Aggarwal-Schifellite, “Genuine Heroines,” 
The Harvard Gazette,
 November 5, 2021.


2:
 
SIZE


1
 
“Nature calls us to expand”:
 Tanya O. Williams, Radical Courage workshop, hosted by Liz Kimball, June 28, 2020.


2
 
“I need to take up space”:
 Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, 
Knock Down the House,
 dir. Rachel Lears, Netflix, 2019.


3
 
Fifty-nine million people:
 Amy Cuddy, “Your Body Language May Shape Who You Are,” TEDGlobal, June 2012, 
https://www.ted.com/talks/amy_cuddy_your_body_language_may_shape_who_you_are?language=en
.


4
 
her naked body:
 Sonya Renee Taylor, 
The Body Is Not an Apology: The Power of Radical Self-Love
 (Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2018).


5
 
“Imposter syndrome directs our view”:
 Ruchika Tulshyan and Jodi-Ann Burey, “Stop Telling Women They Have Imposter Syndrome,” 
Harvard Business Review,
 February 11, 2021.


6
 
the vocalizations of more than fifty bird and mammal species:
 Smithsonian Institution Archives, Accession 08-118, Eugene S. Morton Papers.


7
 
“Those animals who live”:
 John Colapinto, 
This Is the Voice
 (Simon & Schuster, 2021).


8
 
Headlines from:
 Olga Khazan, “Vocal Fry May Hurt Women’s Job Prospects,” 
The Atlantic,
 May 29, 2014; Naomi Wolf, “Young Women, Give Up the Vocal Fry and Reclaim Your Strong Female Voice,” 
The Guardian,
 July 24, 2015.


9
 
“the use of uptalk”:
 Cindy Dachuk, “Uptalk—What It Is and Why You Don’t Ever Want to Do It!,” Ezine Articles, November 10, 2009, 
https://ezinearticles.com/?Uptalk---What-it-is-and-Why-You-Dont-Ever-Want-to-Do-it!&id=3244110
.


10
 
“mallspeak”:
 Matt Seaton, “Word Up,” 
The Guardian,
 September 21, 2001.


11
 
“taken on a negative, feminine connotation”:
 Tadeusz Lewandowski, “Uptalk, Vocal Fry, and, Like, Totally Slang: Assessing Stylistic Trends in American Speech,” in 
Making Sense of Language: Readings in Culture and Communication,
 ed. Susan D. Blum (Oxford University Press, 2008).


12
 
“in a large national sample”:
 Rindy Anderson, Casey Klofstad, William Mayew, and MohanVenkatachalam, “Vocal Fry May Undermine the Success of Young Women in the Labor Market,” 
PLoS ONE
 9, no. 5 (2014), 
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0097506
.


13
 
“It’s like, a more hopeful version”:
 “Please Join Us: 
ZoomWithOprah.com
 8PM ET” on Glennon Doyle’s YouTube Channel, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cqra8GwTllE/
.


14
 
“a form of phonation”:
 Lesley Wolk, Nassima Abdelli-Beruh, and Dianne Slavin, “Habitual Use of Vocal Fry in Young Adult Female Speakers,” 
Voice Foundation Journal of Voice
 26, no. 3 (September 15, 2011), 
https://www.jvoice.org/article/S0892-1997%2811%2900070-1/fulltext
.


15
 
There’s an amazing video:
 Duke University’s Fuqua Vocal Fry Video: “The Vocal Issue That Could Be Costing Women Jobs,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f1Ly5vJKwik
; special thanks to Elan Morgan for the tip-off: “
99% Invisible
 Podcast’s Brilliant Response to Criticism of Women’s Voices,” 
Medium,
 July 13, 2015.


16
 
“Surely, many of our”:
 Ruth Whippman, “Enough Leaning In. Let’s Tell Men to Lean Out,” 
The New York Times,
 October 10, 2019.


17
 
“You’ve watched
 
Land Before
”:
 “Jennifer Lawrence and Emma Stone Have a Lot in Common,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0mutl4l5hw/
.


18
 
“There’s a fundamental human impulse”:
 Deborah Tannen, 
You Just Don’t Understand: Women and Men in Conversation
 (Ballantine Books, 1990).


19
 
Some of the earliest groundbreaking research:
 Cynthia McLemore, “The Interpretation of L*H in English,” 
Texas Linguistic Forum 32: Discourse,
 University of Texas Department of Linguistics and the Center for Cognitive Science, 1990, 
http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/myl/surprise/llog/CAM_Interpretation.pdf
.


20
 
“have a distinctive turn-taking structure”:
 Amanda Montell, 
Wordslut: A Feminist Guide to Taking Back the English Language
 (HarperCollins, 2019).


21
 
“are used to respect the face needs”:
 Jennifer Coates, “Women’s Speech, Women’s Strength?” 
York Papers in Linguistics
 13 (1989), 
https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED320398.pdf
.


22
 
“more common among women”:
 Charlyn Laserna, Yi-Tai Seih, and James Pennebaker, “Um … Who Like Says You Know: Filler Word Use as a Function of Age, Gender and Personality,” 
Journal of Language and Social Psychology
 33, no. 3 (March 27, 2014), 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0261927x14526993
.


23
 
“like” is just unfairly maligned:
 Alexandra D’Arcy, 
Discourse-Pragmatic Variation in Context: Eight Hundred Years of LIKE
 (John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2017).


24
 
“From infancy”:
 Penelope Eckert and Sally McConnell-Ginet, 
Language and Gender
 (Cambridge University Press, 2013).


25
 
In Oprah’s famous 2018 Golden Globes speech:
 “Oprah Winfrey’s Cecil B. DeMille Award Acceptance Speech—2018 Golden Globe Awards,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TTyiq-JpM-0
.


26
 
“I used to, frankly”:
 Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to Michelle Ruiz, “AOC’s Next Four Years,” 
Vanity Fair,
 December 2020.


27
 
“Most of us are aware”:
 Liz Kimball, “Imposter Syndrome Is Cancelled,” 
Medium,
 July 13, 2020, 
https://medium.com/@liz_29469/imposter-syndrome-is-cancelled-e87f0dec0b/
.


28
 
“three inalienable dignities”:
 Sarah Hurwitz, 
Here All Along: Finding Meaning, Spirituality, and a Deeper Connection to Life—in Judaism (After Finally Choosing to Look There)
 (Random House, 2019).


29
 
“supposed to say nice things”:
 Stacey Abrams, 
Lead from the Outside: How to Build Your Future and Make Real Change
 (Henry Holt & Company, 2018).


3:
 
EMOTION


1
 
“If women had also”:
 Lesser, 
Cassandra Speaks
.


2
 
“They are judged as lacking”:
 Mary L. Connerley and Jiyun 
Wu, eds., 
Handbook on Well-Being of Working Women
 (Springer, 2015).


3
 
“The way we use pitch”:
 Wallace Bacon, 
The Art of Interpretation
 (Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1972).


4
 
“The same neuronal areas”:
 Michael Trimble, “The Science of Crying,” 
Time,
 March 16, 2016.


5
 
“What builds connection”:
 Alain de Botton, 
How to Fail with Elizabeth Day,
 podcast, 
https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/special-episode-how-to-fail-alain-botton-on-embracing/id1407451189?i=186470060728
.


6
 
“In the binary shorthand”:
 Anne Kreamer, “Go Ahead—Cry at Work,” 
Time,
 April 4, 2011.


7
 
“masculinity contest culture”:
 Jennifer Berdahl, Peter Glick, and Marianne Cooper, “How Masculinity Contests Undermine Organizations, and What to Do About It,” 
Harvard Business Review,
 November 2, 2018.


8
 
“I cannot name any emotion”:
 Hope Reese, “‘I Cannot Name Any Emotion That Is Uniquely Human,’” 
Longreads,
 March 2019, 
https://longreads.com/2019/03/12/i-cannot-name-any-emotion-that-is-uniquely-human/
.


9
 
“the person with more power”:
 Marc Brackett, 
Permission to Feel
 (Celadon Books, 2019).


10
 
“A distorted elaboration”:
 Jodi-Ann Burey, “The Myth of Bringing Your Full, Authentic Self to Work,” TEDxSeattle, November 2020, 
https://www.ted.com/talks/jodi_ann_burey_the_myth_of_bringing_your_full_authentic_self_to_work?language=en
.


11
 
“Who gets to be human”:
 Author interview with Nanci Luna Jiménez, December 28, 2020.


12
 
how women around the world compromise their health:
 Soraya Chemaly, 
Rage Becomes Her: The Power of Women’s Anger
 (Simon & Schuster, 2018).


13
 
“clear up a misunderstanding”:
 Brackett, 
Permission to Feel
.


14
 
reframing even inconvenient emotional outbursts:
 Elizabeth Wolf, Jooa Lee, Sunita Sah, and Alison Brooks, “Managing Perceptions of Distress at Work: Reframing Emotion as Passion,” 
https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=51400
.


15
 
“check our human side”:
 Kreamer, “Go Ahead—Cry at Work.”


16
 
Men and women both report:
 “Cry Me a River: How Emotions Are Perceived in the Workplace,”Accountemps Survey, 
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cry-me-a-river-how-emotions-are-perceived-in-the-workplace-300623153.html
.


17
 
“I heard an old maestro”:
 Federico García Lorca, “Theory and 
Play of the Duende,” 
https://www.poetryintranslation.com/PITBR/Spanish/LorcaDuende.php/
.


18
 
“Numerous studies have reported”:
 Chai Tyng, Hafiz Amin, Mohamad Saad, and Aamir Malik, “The Influences of Emotion on Learning and Memory,” 
Frontiers in Psychology
 (August 24, 2017), 
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2017.01454/full
.


19
 
Take the first few moments:
 Thanks to Lori Snyder for the use of this guided meditation. You can learn more about her and her work here: 
https://writershappiness.com
.


20
 
“Words have become largely utilitarian”:
 Kristin Linklater, 
Freeing the Natural Voice
 (Drama Book Specialists, 1976).


21
 
“all heartache and ambition”:
 Kate Baer, “Motherload,” in 
She Holds a Cosmos,
 ed. Mallory Farrugia (Chronicle Books, 2021).


22
 
“access to assets”:
 Amy Cuddy, 
Presence: Bringing Your Boldest Self to Your Biggest Challenges
 (Little, Brown Spark, 2015).


23
 
“In an ideal world”:
 Cuddy, 
Presence: Bringing Your Boldest Self to Your Biggest Challenges
.


24
 
“Today, the business world”:
 Hitendra Wadhwa, “Creating a Values-Based Culture,” 
Intersections,
 
https://www.hitendra.com/podcast/creating-a-values-based-culture
.


25
 
“The first act of violence”:
 bell hooks, 
The Will to Change: Men, Masculinity, and Love
 (Washington Square Press, 2004).


26
 
“Take it like a woman”:
 from a tweet by Megyn Kelly, 
https://twitter.com/megynkelly/status/1314017761891364864
.


27
 
“Many of my colleagues”:
 Madeleine Albright, 
Madam Secretary: A Memoir
 (Miramax Books, 2003).


28
 
“Our ability to tap deep”:
 Ilyse Hogue, “How to Inspire Hope,” 
Permission to Speak,
 podcast, July 28, 2020, 
https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/how-to-inspire-hope-with-ilyse-hogue/id1491356006?i=1000486452038
.


29
 
“Embracing your full humanity”:
 from a tweet by David Roberts, 
https://twitter.com/drvolts/status/1314053001934303234
.


30
 
“As you enter positions”:
 Toni Morrison, Sarah Lawrence College commencement speech, 1988.


4:
 
PITCH


1
 
“and there was a new voice”:
 Mary Oliver, “The Journey,” in 
Dream Work
 (Grove Atlantic, 1986).


2
 
And if you’re actively challenging:
 For more information and support re: trans voices, please check out the Voice Lab, 
thevoicelabinc.com
, as well as Liz Jackson Hearns, 
One Weird Trick: A User’s 
Guide to Transgender Voice
 (CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2018).


3
 
“The prefrontal cortex contributes”:
 Marc Dingman, 
Your Brain, Explained: What Neuroscience Reveals About Your Brain and Its Quirks
 (John Murray Press, 2019).


4
 
we differ from other primates:
 Edward Chang, Benjamin Ditchter, Jonathan Breshears, and Matthew Leonard, “The Control of Vocal Pitch in Human Laryngeal Motor Cortex,” 
National Library of Medicine
 174, no. 1 (June 2018), 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29958109/
.


5
 
The exaggerated up and down intonation:
 Anne Fernald and Claudia Mazzie, “Prosody and Focus in Speech to Infants and Adults,” 
Developmental Psychology
 27, no. 2 (1991), 
https://psycnet.apa.org/record/1991-20983-001/
.


6
 
an evolutionary arms race:
 Richard Dawkins and John Richard Krebs, “Arms Races Between and Within Species,” 
Proceedings of the Royal Society B
 205, no. 1161 (September 1979), 
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rspb.1979.0081
.


7
 
“Fight or flight has a body posture”:
 Dr. Christine Runyan, “What’s Happening in Our Nervous Systems?” 
On Being, with Krista Tippett
, podcast, March 18, 2021, 
https://onbeing.org/programs/christine-runyan-whats-happening-in-our-nervous-systems/
.


8
 
Say the word “no”:
 Andrew Newberg and Mark Robert Waldman, 
Words Can Change Your Brain
 (Penguin, 2012).


9
 
“At the ages of four to five years”:
 Eckert and McConnell-Ginet, 
Language and Gender.


10
 
“Humans appear to be unique”:
 Daniel Re, Jillian O’Connor, Patrick Bennett, and David Feinberg, “Preferences for Very Low and Very High Voice Pitch in Humans,” 
PLoS ONE
 (March 2012), 
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0032719
.


11
 
a woman’s voice that was systematically altered for pitch:
 Yi Xu, Albert Lee, Wing-Li Wu, Xuan Liu, and Peter Birkholz, “Human Vocal Attractiveness as Signaled by Body Size Projection,” 
PLoS ONE
 (April 2013), 
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0062397/
.


12
 
“the voice you wake up with”:
 Montell, 
Wordslut.


13
 
“When you step beyond”:
 Barbara McAfee, 
Full Voice: The Art and Practice of Vocal Presence
 (Berrett-Koehler, 2011).


14
 
As does sensing that we’re in:
 Juan David Leongómez, Viktoria R. Mileva, Anthony C. Little, and S. Craig Roberts, “Perceived 
Differences in Social Status Between Speaker and Listener Affect the Speaker’s Vocal Characteristics,” 
PLoS ONE
 (June 14, 2017), 
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0179407
.


5:
 
TONE


1
 
“Gather all your parts”:
 Jennifer Armbrust, 
Proposals for the Feminine Economy
 (Fourth Wave, 2018). Please check out Jennifer’s online course, Feminist Business School, at 
https://sister.is/feminist-business-school/
.


2
 
“We often refuse to accept”:
 Attributed to Friedrich Nietzsche, source unknown.


3
 
the “grain”:
 Roland Barthes, “The Grain of the Voice,” 1972.


4
 
“just the latest”:
 Gretchen McCulloch, 
Because Internet: Understanding How Language Is Changing
 (Random House, 2019).


5
 
“let’s get out of here”:
 “Same Line from Different Films—Let’s Get Out of Here,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FKCIL1L1lXE
.


6
 
“softens their appearance”:
 John Neffinger and Matthew Kohut, 
Compelling People: The Hidden Qualities That Make Us Influential
 (Penguin, 2014).


7
 
Nothing illustrates this quite like:
 Madeline E. Heilman, Aaron S. Wallen, Daniella Fuchs, and Melinda M. Tamkins, “Penalties for Success: Reactions to Women Who Succeed at Male Gender-Typed Tasks,” 
Journal of Applied Psychology
 89, no. 3 (June 2004): 416–27, 
https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2004-95165-003
.


8
 
“When information was included”:
 Kate Manne, “Women Can Have a Little Power, as a Treat,” 
The New York Times,
 July 28, 2020.


9
 
the love that we might extend:
 Valarie Kaur, 
See No Stranger: A Memoir and Manifesto of Revolutionary Love
 (Random House, 2020).


10
 
radical self-love:
 Taylor, 
The Body Is Not an Apology.


11
 
a variation on Shine Theory:
 Aminatou Sow and Ann Friedman, “Shine Theory,” 
www.shinetheory.com
.


12
 
“We often define toughness”:
 Jennifer Dulski, 
Purposeful: Are You a Manager … or a Movement Starter?
 (Portfolio Publishing, 2018).


13
 
analyzed over 70,000 business leaders:
 Zenger Folkman, “Warmth or Competence: Which Leadership Quality Is More Important?” 
https://zengerfolkman.com/articles/warmth-or-competence-which-leadership-quality-is-more-important/
.


14
 
“are dead wrong”:
 Dacher Keltner, “The Power Paradox,” 
Greater Good,
 December 1, 2007.


15
 
“Ask for what you want”:
 Often attributed to Maya Angelou, source unknown.


16
 
“Bring your belonging with you”:
 Malika Amandi, Center for Women’s Voice, 
https://www.centerforwomensvoice.com/
.


17
 
“pop-up rules”:
 Priya Parker, 
The Art of Gathering: How We Meet and Why It Matters
 (Riverhead Books, 2018).


18
 
“happy high status”:
 Viv Groskop, 
How to Own the Room: Women and the Art of Brilliant Speaking
 (HarperCollins, 2019).


6:
 
SOUNDS


1
 
“Language, incontestably, reveals the speaker”:
 James Baldwin, “If Black English Isn’t a Language, Then Tell Me, What Is?” 
The New York Times,
 July 29, 1979.


2
 
“singsong Bavarian accent”:
 Carol J. Williams, “Accent Gets in the Way When Bavarian Candidate Speaks to the Germans,” 
Los Angeles Times,
 September 22, 2002.


3
 
“The tidiness of writing”:
 John McWhorter, “The Biases We Hold Against the Way People Speak,” 
The New York Times,
 July 21, 2020.


4
 
“The sounds coming out”:
 Roger Love and Donna Frazier, 
Set Your Voice Free: How to Get the Singing or Speaking Voice You Want
 (Little, Brown, 2016).


5
 
“Decades of social psychology research”:
 Katherine D. Kinzler, 
How You Say It: Why We Judge Others by the Way They Talk—and the Costs of This Hidden Bias
 (HMH Books, 2020).


6
 
“I would oftentimes sound silly”:
 Margot Macy, “For Black Girls Whose Voices Are ‘Too White’ or ‘Too Black,’” Human Parts (blog), 
Medium,
 August 12, 2020, 
https://humanparts.medium.com/what-the-fuck-is-my-black-voice-9cc21d20898c/
.


7
 
a gentleman from Ohio:
 Donald L. Rubin, “Nonlanguage Factors Affecting Undergraduates’ Judgments of Nonnative English-Speaking Teaching Assistants,” 
Research in Higher Education
 33, no. 4 (August 1992), 
https://www.jstor.org/stable/40196047
.


8
 
“We rarely talk explicitly”:
 Viv Groskop, “Bad News: How You Speak Still Matters More Than What You Say,” 
Financial Times,
 October 25, 2019.


9
 
“No one actually intends”:
 Groskop, “Bad News.”


10
 
think of bias as favoritism:
 Safwat Saleem, “Why I Keep Speaking Up, Even When People Mock My Accent,” TED2016, February 
2016, 
https://www.ted.com/talks/safwat_saleem_why_i_keep_speaking_up_even_when_people_mock_my_accent?language=en
.


11
 
“Good Speech”:
 Edith Skinner, 
Speak with Distinction: The Classic Skinner Method to Speech for the Stage
 (Hal Leonard Corporation, 2007).


12
 
“far too unlimited influx”:
 M. E. DeWitt, 
EuphonEnglish
 (Dutton, 1924).


13
 
“Even by the end of kindergarten”:
 Anne H. Charity Hudley, “Which English You Speak Has Nothing to Do with How Smart You Are,” 
Slate,
 October 14, 2014, 
slate.com/human-interest/2014/10/english-variation-not-related-to-intelligence-code-switching-and-other-ways-to-fight-linguistic-insecurity.html
.


14
 
the most trafficked page:
 Take the Accent Quiz: Josh Katz and Wilson Andrews, “How Y’all, Youse and You Guys Talk,” 
The New York Times,
 December 21, 2013, 
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/upshot/dialect-quiz-map.html
.


7:
 
WORDS


1
 
“It’s practicing, rehearsing”:
 Amanda Gorman to Liam Hess, “Inaugural Poet Amanda Gorman on Her Career-Defining Address and Paying Homage to Maya Angelou,” 
Vogue,
 January 20, 2021.


2
 
People will forget what you said:
 Often attributed to Maya Angelou, but actual source unknown.


3
 
“If you make up a sentence”:
 Dr. David Adger, “This Simple Structure Unites All Human Languages,” 
Nautilus,
 September 19, 2019.


4
 
“Our relationships live in the space”:
 Martin Buber, 
I and Thou
 (Insel-Verlag, 1923).


5
 
“I think we can learn”:
 Anna Deavere Smith, 
Talk to Me: Listening Between the Lines
 (Random House, 2000).


6
 
“describes what is measurably so”:
 Michael Dowd to Barbara Stahura, “Science of Mind: Interview with Michael Dowd,” Thank God for Evolution (blog), 
https://thankgodforevolution.com/node/1447/
.


7
 
“Wow. That’s sad”:
 “Exclusive Finding Your Roots Sneak Peak—Scarlett Johansson,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVRsNXgeJ5Q
.


8
 
“All of us driven”:
 “Michelle Obama Keynote Address at DNC,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=790hG6qBPx0&t=695s
.


9
 
Start by yawning as big as possible:
 Special thanks to Thom Jones, the head of Brown University and Trinity Repertory Compa
ny’s MFA graduate program’s voice and speech department, for introducing much of this warm-up to me and for his mentorship.


10
 
delivered this speech during an excruciating moment:
 Michelle Obama, 
Becoming
 (Crown, 2018).


11
 
“like all little girls”:
 “Abby Wambach: Barnard Commencement 2018,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJe40l2waxs
.


8:
 
HEROISM


1
 
“From my point of view”:
 Toni Morrison, Wellesley commencement address, 2004.


2
 
The best explanation I’ve heard:
 Carol Gilligan, 
In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women’s Development
 (Harvard University Press, 1982).


3
 
“Psychologists had assumed a culture”:
 Carol Gilligan, 
Joining the Resistance
 (John Wiley & Sons, 2013).


4
 
“when we speak in front”:
 Sarah Gershman, “To Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking, Stop Thinking About Yourself,” 
Harvard Business Review,
 September 17, 2019.


5
 
“Oxytocin, the compound known”:
 
LiveScience
, “How Love Conquers Fear” Fox News, October 24, 2015, 
https://www.foxnews.com/health/how-love-conquers-fear-hormone-helps-mothers-defend-young/
.


6
 
“the brain speedily delivers”:
 Luke Yoquinto, “Frozen with Fear? How the Love Hormone Gets You Moving,” 
LiveScience,
 February 10, 2012, 
https://www.livescience.com/18425-oxytocin-fights-fear-brain.html/
.


7
 
But men are perfectly capable:
 Nina Marsh, Dirk Scheele, Justin S. Feinstein, Holger Gerhardt, Sabrina Strang, Wolfgang Maier, and René Hurlemann, “Oxytocin-Enforced Norm Compliance Reduces Xenophobic Outgroup Rejection,” 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
 114, no. 35 (August 2017), 
https://www.pnas.org/content/114/35/9314.short/
.


8
 
“Since then, I’ve
 
never
”:
 “The Art of Being Yourself | Caroline McHugh,” YouTube, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=veEQQ-N9xWU/
.


9
 
“Often, they are small”:
 Kazuo Ishiguro, Nobel Lecture, December 7, 2017.


10
 
“He’s just a hero”:
 Liz Phair lyrics and more in Rebecca Solnit, “When the Hero Is the Problem,” 
Literary Hub,
 April 2, 2019.


11
 
“There are centuries”:
 Brit Marling, “I Don’t Want to Be the Strong Female Lead,” 
The New York Times,
 February 7, 2020.


12
 
“hair is political”:
 Jessica Moulite, “Exclusive: Rep. Ayanna Pressley Reveals Beautiful Bald Head and Discusses Alopecia for the First Time,” 
The Root,
 January 16, 2020.


13
 
“a symbiotic exchange”:
 Frank Rose, “The Art of Immersion: Why Do We Tell Stories?” 
Wired
, March 8, 2011.


14
 
“Re-enchant your life”:
 from a tweet by Boze Herrington, 
http://twitter.com/SketchesbyBoze/status/1500899823599472645
.


15
 
“neural entrainment”:
 Uri Hasson, “This Is Your Brain on Communication,” TED2016, 
https://www.ted.com/talks/uri_hasson_this_is_your_brain_on_communication?language=en
.


16
 
“stories aren’t just the territory”:
 Dacher Keltner, “Good Leaders Tell Stories That Make People Trust Them with Power,” 
Quartz,
 May 17, 2016.













Index


The page references in this index correspond to the print edition from which this ebook was created, and clicking on them will take you to the location in the ebook where the equivalent print page would begin. To find a specific word or phrase from the index, please use the search feature of your ebook reader.


abdomen, 
31–32
, 
34
, 
36
, 
39–41
, 
105–106
. 
See also
 
belly
; 
diaphragm


Abrams, Stacey, 
78


accents and dialects, 
164
, 
166–169
, 
170–173
, 
179–180
, 
183–184
, 
196


Adger, David, 
190


adultism, 
88–90


African American English (AAE), 
170–171


Alan Alda Center for Communicating Science, 
10


Albright, Madeleine, 
109–110


alopecia, 
233–234


Amandi, Malika, 
157


American Eugenics Society, 
181


anchoring, 
102–103


ancient Greece, 
81–82


Androgyne, 
43–44


Angelou, Maya, 
155


animals


emotion display rules for, 
87


pitch of, 
116
, 
127
, 
128


tone used with dogs, 
139–140


vocalizations of, 
51–52


apologizing, 
59–62
, 
68–70
, 
71


Ardern, Jacinda, 
14
, 
152


Armbrust, Jennifer, 
139


articulate-sounding speech, 
187–189
, 
194–197


“The Art of Being Yourself” (TED Talk), 
229


The Art of Gathering
 (Parker), 
158–159
, 
234


The Art of Immersion
 (Rose), 
235


authenticity


in adolescence, 
224–225
, 
234


bias toward, 
195
, 
216–217


defined, 
96


on digital platforms, 
14


of emotions, 
81–83
, 
96–97
, 
107–111


tone and, 
141–142


warmth and, 
147
, 
158


authority. 
See
 
power
; 
voice of authority


Bacon, Wallace, 
83


Baer, Kate, 
106


Bain Capital, 
92–93


Baldoni, Justin, 
14


Baldwin, James, 
163
, 
172


Ballour, Amani, 
14


Barthes, Roland, 
143


baseline pitch, 
126–127
, 
135
, 
138


Bay, Samara


background, 
8–9


career trajectory, 
9–11


out-of-sync voice and body, 
3–5


permission to speak from, 
11–16


personal story of heroism, 
219–221
, 
240–241


personal story of pitch, 
113–114
, 
125
, 
130


personal story of sounds, 
177–179


BBC, 
183


Bean, Judith Mattson, 
41
, 
42


Beard, Mary, 
3
, 
6–7
, 
43
, 
44
, 
246


Because Internet
 (McCulloch), 
143–144


Becoming
 (Obama), 
214


bedroom voice, 
129–130


Beecher, Catharine, 
41–42


“being public,” 
22


belly, 
31–33
, 
34
, 
36
, 
39–41
, 
105–106
. 
See also
 
diaphragm


belly breaths, 
31–33
, 
34
, 
40
, 
102


belonging, 
157–158


sounds of, 
163–166
, 
169–174


word shaping of, 
203–204


big-decision breathing, 
35–37


Biles, Simone, 
224
, 
246


“Black linguistic imagination,” 
182


The Body Is Not an Apology
 (Taylor), 
47–48
, 
149


body language, 
116


body-voice connection


breath-body response, 
27–35
, 
40–41


breath support and, 
24–27


comfort zone for, 
12–13


emotion and, 
87
, 
93
, 
98
, 
99–107


fight-flight-freeze response, 
26
, 
28–29
, 
36–37
, 
122–124
, 
228


heroism and, 
227–228
, 
243–244


out of sync, 
3–5


pitch and, 
116–117
, 
120–123


taking up space and, 
47–49


bonobos, 
87


Booker, Cory, 
14


Brackett, Marc, 
88
, 
90
, 
94
, 
106


breaking habits. 
See
 
habits


breath, 
19–45
. 
See also
 
deep breaths


background and overview, 
19–20


body’s connection to, 
27–35


daring to breathe in public, 
20–22
, 
41–44


expansion exercises, 
35–41
, 
50
, 
205–207
. 
See also
 
size


front-loading and, 
55–60


habit of holding, 
20–22
, 
31–32


new sound of power in, 
44–45


pacing, 
22–24
, 
29–30
, 
55–56


for pitch variation, 
121–122


as punctuation, 
201


support for, 
23–27
, 
40–41


“breathing well,” 
25
, 
31
, 
36


“Bring your belonging with you,” 
157–158


Brous, Sharon, 
14


Brown, Brené, 
159


Bryson, Bill, 
38–39
, 
184
, 
196–197


Buber, Martin, 
191


Buchanan, Barbara, 
132–133


“bulldogs,” 
141
, 
159–160


bunching/chunking of words, 
199–202


Burch, Tory, 
10


Burey, Jodi-Ann, 
49
, 
88


Campbell, Joseph, 
230


Cassandra Speaks
 (Lesser), 
43
, 
153–154
, 
242


Chang, Edward, 
117


Change.org
, 
152


Chemaly, Soraya, 
91


Chief, 
10


chimpanzees, 
87


chunking of words, 
199–202


Churchill, Winston, 
5–6


Clinton, Hillary, 
137


Clooney, George, 
159


Clueless
 (film), 
58
, 
165


Coates, Jennifer, 
66
, 
67


Colapinto, John, 
51
, 
128


Colbert, Stephen, 
5–6


communal heroism, 
232–233
, 
240–241


Compelling People
 (Neffinger and Kohut), 
145–147


confidence, 
63
, 
146–147
, 
149
, 
155–161


constructive gratitude, 
77–78


Create & Cultivate, 
10


Cuddy, Amy, 
39
, 
47–48
, 
106–107
, 
156


D’Arcy, Alexandra, 
68


Dawkins, Richard, 
119–120


day language, 
196–197


de Botton, Alain, 
84


deep breaths


body-breath connection and, 
31–34


breaking tradition with, 
44–45


breath support for, 
23–24


exercises for, 
35–41


habit of withholding, 
20–22
, 
31–32


Democratic National Convention (2008), 
201


Democratic National Convention (2020), 
22–23
, 
25
, 
242–243


De Niro, Robert, 
167


destructive gratitude, 
77–78


detachment, 
81–84
, 
86–87
, 
92
, 
109–110


de Waal, Frans, 
87


DeWitt, Marguerite, 
181


dialects and accents, 
164
, 
166–169
, 
170–173
, 
179–180
, 
183–184
, 
196


diaphragm, 
27–28
, 
30–33
, 
40–41


diaphragmatic breathing, 
36–37


digital platforms, 
14


dignity, 
76–77


Dingman, Marc, 
116–117


discrimination


display rules and, 
88–89


sounds of, 
170–174
, 
176
, 
177–184


in the workplace, 
145–146
, 
170–171


display rules, for emotions, 
87–92
, 
143


Dolly Parton’s America
 podcast, 
156–157


double bind, 
141–142


Douglass, Frederick, 
197


Dowd, Michael, 
197–198


Down Girl
 (Manne), 
147–148


Doyle, Glennon, 
54–55


duende
, 
97–98
, 
105
, 
192
, 
240


Dulski, Jennifer, 
152


easy breathing exercise, 
38–39


Eckert, Penelope, 
69–70
, 
127
, 
165


Eltahawy, Mona, 
14


emotion, 
81–111


authenticity of, 
81–83
, 
96–97
, 
107–111


body’s connection to, 
87
, 
93
, 
98
, 
99–107


context and, 
107–111


detachment from, 
81–84
, 
86–87
, 
92
, 
109–110


display rules for, 
87–92


expansion exercises, 
99–107


feelings comparison, 
90–92


as the new sound of power, 
110–111


passion and, 
92–99
, 
108–109


vulnerability and, 
84–86
, 
93–94


Euphonetics, 
181–183


exercises. 
See
 
voice work


feelings


emotions comparison, 
90–92
. 
See also
 
emotion


expressing with words, 
191


feminism, 
154


Fennell, Emerald, 
91


Fernald, Anne, 
117


fight-flight-freeze response, 
26
, 
28–29
, 
36–37
, 
122–124
, 
228


“filler” words, 
52
, 
58–59
, 
61–62
, 
67–70
, 
72


Finding Your Roots
 (TV series), 
200–201


“For Black Girls Whose Voices Are ‘Too White’ or ‘Too Black’” (Macy), 
171


formal language and articulate-sounding speech, 
187–189
, 
194–197


Four S’s of speech preparation, 
209–215


Frances-White, Deborah, 
31


Friedman, Ann, 
151
, 
176


front-loading, 
55–60


Full Voice
 (McAfee), 
131–132


García Lorca, Federico, 
98


Garza, Alicia, 
153


genuineness. 
See
 
authenticity


Gershman, Sarah, 
226


“Get in trouble,” 
105


Gillard, Julia, 
93


Gilligan, Carol, 
222–224
, 
225
, 
227
, 
234
, 
246


“girlboss,” 
193


Glass, Ira, 
57


Godin, Seth, 
30


González, X, 
14
, 
234–235


Goodall, Jane, 
246


“Good Speech,” 
179–183


Gorman, Amanda, 
14
, 
187
, 
197


“grain” of the voice, 
143
. 
See also
 
tone


gratitude, 
77–78
, 
122
, 
237


Greek mythology, 
43–44


Greenberg, Yitz, 
76


Groskop, Viv, 
159
, 
173


guided meditation, 
99–102
. 
See also
 
meditation


Guilty Feminist
 podcast, 
31


gut. 
See
 
abdomen


gut wisdom, 
31–32
, 
105–106


habits


accents and dialects, 
164
, 
171–173
, 
179–180
, 
183–184


breaking habits as power, 
14–15


breaking habits through breathwork, 
26–27
, 
35–41


voice stories as, 
4
, 
12–13


hair loss, 
233–234


Handbook on Well-Being of Working Women
 (Connerley and Wu), 
82–83


Hanks, Tom, 
5–6


“happy high status,” 
159


Harris, Kamala, 
22–23
, 
25
, 
42
, 
108–109


Hasson, Uri, 
243–244


Hawking, Stephen, 
8–9


hedging, 
58–59
, 
61–62
, 
67–70
, 
72


#heforshe, 
14


Hepburn, Katharine, 
183


Here All Along
 (Hurwitz), 
76


The Heroine with 1001 Faces
 (Tatar), 
43


heroism, 
219–247


author’s personal story, 
219–221
, 
240–241


body’s connection to, 
227–228
, 
243–244


communal heroism, 
232–233
, 
240–241


gender and, 
221–225
, 
231–233


hero’s journey, 
230–236
, 
244


new sound of power for, 
246–247


personal stories’ power, 
220–221
, 
234–236


personal story guidelines, 
236–240
, 
241–245


secret to, 
225–230


warmth and strength balance for, 
151–154


hero’s journey, 
230–236
, 
244


Herrington, Boze, 
242


high-stakes breathing, 
39–41


Hogue, Ilyse, 
95
, 
108
, 
110
, 
174
, 
236


Holmes, Elizabeth, 
131
, 
133


honesty. 
See
 
authenticity


hooks, bell, 
15
, 
109


hosting, 
157–159


How to Own the Room
 podcast, 
119
, 
159


How You Say It
 (Kinzler), 
169–170


Hudley, Anne Charity, 
182


Huerta, Dolores, 
14


Hurwitz, Sarah, 
76
, 
119
, 
237–238


“I can’t breathe” rallying cry, 
20


identity, sounds of, 
163–164
, 
169–174
, 
177


idiolect, 
171–172
, 
180


“I Don’t Want to Be the Strong Female Lead” (Marling), 
231–232


iHeartRadio, 
10
, 
113–114


ikigai
, 
220


Imaginary Ball exercise, 
71–73


imposter syndrome, 
48–49
, 
75
, 
78–79


In a Different Voice
 (Gilligan), 
222–223


inalienable dignities, 
76–77


informal language, 
188
, 
196–198


International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), 
178–179


Ishiguro, Kazuo, 
231
, 
245


It’s Always Personal
 (Kreamer), 
86


Jamil, Jameela, 
14


Jiménez, Nanci Luna, 
88–89


Jobs, Steve, 
5–6


Johansson, Scarlett, 
129
, 
200–201


Johnson, Dwayne “The Rock,” 
73–74


Joining the Resistance
 (Gilligan), 
223–224


“The Journey” (Oliver), 
113


journey of the hero/heroine, 
230–236
, 
244


Judaism, 
76
, 
191


Kardashian, Kim, 
57


Katz, Josh, 
183


Kaur, Valarie, 
149
, 
246


Kavanaugh, Brett, 
87–88


Kelly, Megyn, 
109
, 
110


Keltner, Dacher, 
154–155
, 
245


Kennedy, John F., 
5–6
, 
56


Keys, Alicia, 
235


Kimball, Liz, 
75
, 
122
, 
193
, 
224


King, Martin Luther, Jr., 
14
, 
197


Kinzler, Katherine, 
169–170
, 
172


Knock Down the House
 (documentary), 
47


Kohut, Matthew, 
145–147


Krater, Jen, 
104


Kraus, Michael, 
173


Kreamer, Anne, 
86
, 
96


Krebs, John, 
119–120


Language and Gender
 (Eckert and McConnell-Ginet), 
69–70
, 
127
, 
165


Lawrence, Jennifer, 
62


Lead from the Outside
 (Abrams), 
78


Lean In
 (Sandberg), 
154


Lesser, Elizabeth, 
43
, 
81
, 
92
, 
153–154
, 
242


Lexicon Valley
 podcast, 
168


“like” (filler word), 
52
, 
68


Lincoln, Abraham, 
197


linguistic insecurity, 
182


Linklater, Kristin, 
104
, 
203


lizards, 
51


Lizzo, 
14


“loop it through the heart,” 
103–104


Love, Roger, 
169


Machiavelli, Niccolò, 
153–154


Macy, Margot, 
171
, 
182


Maddow, Rachel, 
118


“Make it about them,” as the secret to heroism, 
225–230


making social moves, 
50–52


Mallory, Tamika, 
21
, 
93


mallspeak, 
53
, 
58


Manne, Kate, 
147–148


mansplaining, 
193


Markle, Meghan, 
138


Marling, Brit, 
231–232


Marsh, Nina, 
228


McAfee, Barbara, 
131–132


McConnell-Ginet, Sally, 
69–70
, 
127
, 
165


McCulloch, Gretchen, 
143–144


McHugh, Caroline, 
229


McKinsey, 
92–93


McLemore, Cynthia, 
64–65


McWhorter, John, 
168


Meadows, Tim, 
166


meditation


breath and, 
35
, 
40


for emotion connection, 
99–102


for pitch variation, 
122


Metamorphoses
 (Ovid), 
44


Microsoft, 
10


Miller, Chanel, 
138


mindset visualization, 
106–107


“monetization of selfhood,” 
14


monotone, 
113–115
, 
118


Monroe, Marilyn, 
8


Montell, Amanda, 
65–66
, 
68
, 
129–130
, 
192


More Myself
 (Keys), 
235


Morrison, Toni, 
111
, 
219
, 
244


Morton, Eugene, 
51


The Mother Tongue
 (Bryson), 
38–39
, 
184
, 
196–197


movement starters. 
See
 
heroism


MoveOn.org
, 
10
, 
220
, 
240


music


for breathwork, 
35


emotion and, 
98


for pitch variation, 
121


of words, 
212–213


musicality, 
166
, 
170
, 
178
, 
226


My Fair Lady
 (film), 
8
, 
166


Nagoski, Emily, 
246


naming and claiming, 
193


Neffinger, John, 
145–147


neural entrainment, 
243


Newberg, Andrew, 
122


new sound of power. 
See also
 
voice of authority


background and overview, 
11–16


in breath, 
44–45


emotion as, 
110–111


for heroism, 
246–247


size of, 
78–79


speech and, 
174–177
, 
184–185


through pitch, 
118
, 
136–138


through tone, 
151–155
, 
159–161


with words, 
195
, 
215–217


Nichols, Lisa, 
241


Nietzsche, Friedrich, 
140


night language, 
196–197


“no,” 
122


Noah, Trevor, 
118


nodules (vocal), 
4–5
, 
130
, 
164


Obama, Barack, 
152
, 
201
, 
237
, 
240–241


Obama, Michelle, 
152
, 
201
, 
214
, 
237–238


Ocasio-Cortez, Alexandria “AOC,” 
47
, 
75
, 
136–137
, 
138
, 
246


The Odyssey
 (Homer), 
43


Oliaee, Shima, 
156–157


Oliver, Mary, 
113
, 
117


Omar, Ilhan, 
176


On Being
 podcast, 
120–121


optimum pitch, 
130
, 
131–136


O’Shaughnessy, Arthur, 
207


Ovid, 
44


owning the space, 
155–159


oxytocin, 
227–228


pacing, 
22–24
, 
29–30
, 
55–56


Parker, Priya, 
158–159
, 
193
, 
234
, 
246


Parton, Dolly, 
156–157
, 
166–167


passion, 
92–99
, 
108–109


Pence, Mike, 
108–109


perfectionism


breath and, 
29–30


finding the perfect words, 
187–190
, 
194–195
, 
216–217


gendered culture of heroism and, 
225


Permission to Feel
 (Bracket), 
88
, 
94


permission to speak. 
See
 
public speaking


personal power, 
106–107
, 
156


personal stories. 
See
 
heroism


Phair, Liz, 
231


physics conferences, 
8–9


pitch, 
113–138
. 
See also
 
upspeak
; 
vocal fry


author’s personal story, 
113–114
, 
125
, 
130


baseline pitch, 
126–127
, 
135
, 
138


body’s connection to, 
116–117
, 
120–123


for collaboration, 
64–71


defined, 
114–115


emotion of, 
83–84


evolution and, 
116
, 
119–120
, 
128


expansion exercises, 
71–73
, 
120–124


gendered, 
64–71
, 
115–116
, 
126–131


new sound of power through, 
118
, 
136–138


optimum pitch, 
130
, 
131–136


purpose of, 
83


variation and range of, 
113–120
, 
126–127
, 
211–213


vocal hiding, 
92
, 
113–120


voice stories and, 
124–126


Plank, Liz, 
138


play big, 
47–49
. 
See also
 
size


Poo, Ai-jen, 
14


“pop-up rules,” 
159
, 
193


Portas, Mary, 
152–153


Porter, Katie, 
14


power, 
3–18


author’s personal story, 
3–5
, 
8–11


breath and, 
24–25


new sound of, 
11–16
. 
See also
 
new sound of power


out-of-sync voice and body, 
3–5


paradox of, 
16–18


personal power mindset, 
106–107
, 
156


as respect, 
13


social power, 
106
, 
110–111


voice as power, 
12
. 
See also
 
voice of authority


power poses, 
47–48


prana, 
36


Presence
 (Cuddy), 
106–107


Pressley, Ayanna, 
233–234


professionalism, 
88
, 
108–111


Proposals for the Feminine Economy
 (Armbrust), 
139


prostitutes as “public women,” 
42


public speaking. 
See also
 
breath
; 
emotion
; 
heroism
; pitch; power; 
size
; 
sounds
; 
tone
; 
words


as “being public,” 
22


defined, 
17


speech writing guidelines, 
199–203
, 
237–239


women’s history of, 
41–45


“public women,” 
42


Purposeful
 (Dulski), 
152


“the Queen’s English,” 
183


racism. 
See
 
discrimination


Rage Becomes Her
 (Chemaly), 
91


Ramírez, Édgar, 
14


Rapinoe, Megan, 
39
, 
47–48
, 
72


Rascoe, Ayesha, 
176


“received pronunciation” (RP), 
183


Reid, Joy, 
118


ribs, 
37–38


Roberts, David, 
110


Rodgers, Rachel, 
246


Rose, Frank, 
235


r
 sound, 
166–167
, 
206–207


Rubin, Donald, 
172–173


Ruiz, Michelle, 
75


Runyan, Christine, 
120–121
, 
122–123


RuPaul, 
138


Russell, Bertrand, 
7–8


Saint John, Bozoma, 
14


Saleem, Safwat, 
173–174


Sandberg, Sheryl, 
154


Saturday Night Live
 skits, 
58
, 
166


Scheele, Dirk, 
228


See No Stranger
 (Kaur), 
149


self-care, for pitch variation, 
120–122


self-imposed speech impediments, 
52–55
. 
See also
 
upspeak
; 
vocal fry


sense, in speech giving, 
209–210
, 
214–215


sentiment, in speech giving, 
213–215


sexy bedroom voice, 
129–130


shape exercises, 
35–41
, 
50
, 
205–207


sheath dresses, 
32–33


Shine Theory, 
151


shrinking. 
See
 
size


Silverstone, Alicia, 
58


singsong speech, 
71–72
, 
117–118
, 
119
, 
167


sirens (Greek mythology), 
43–44


size, 
47–79


expanding and contracting, 
50
, 
64–71


expanding exercises, 
71–73


expansion permission, 
73–78


new sound of expansion, 
78–79


self-imposed speech impediments, 
52–55


shrinking as a habit, 
60–64


shrinking strategies, 
55–60


speaking up, 
49–50
, 
59–60


speech acts and making social moves, 
50–52
. 
See also
 
apologizing
; 
front-loading
; 
hedging
; 
upspeak
; 
vocal fry


taking up space, 
47–49


of words, 
202


Skinner, Edith, 
179–180
, 
182–183


Smith, Anna Deavere, 
194–195


Snyder, Lori, 
99


social biases. 
See also
 
discrimination


emotion display rules, 
87–92
, 
143


speech and, 
173


women in public, 
41–45


social moves, 
50–52


social power, 
106
, 
110–111


Solnit, Rebecca, 
193
, 
232–233


sounds, 
163–185
. 
See also
 
new sound of power


accents and dialects, 
164
, 
166–169
, 
170–173
, 
179–180
, 
183–184
, 
196


author’s personal experience, 
177–179


definitions, 
164


identity and, 
163–164
, 
169–174
, 
177


power in standardization of, 
170–174
, 
176
, 
177–184


pride and the new sound of power, 
174–177
, 
184–185


in speech giving, 
210–211


vocal trends, 
166


Sow, Aminatou, 
151


space. 
See
 
size


speaking up, 
49–50
, 
59–60
. 
See also
 
size


Speak with Distinction
 (Skinner), 
179–180
, 
182–183


speech. 
See
 
emotion
; 
heroism
; 
size
; 
sounds
; 
words


speech acts, 
50–52


speech writing guidelines, 
199–203
, 
237–239


Standard American English, 
170–171
, 
176
, 
179–183


Starbucks Voice, 
115
, 
129


Stewart, Jimmy, 
183


Stoiber, Edmund, 
167


Stone, Emma, 
62


strength and warmth


balance of, 
140–142
, 
144–155
, 
159–161


owning the space through, 
155–159


stress on words, in speech giving, 
211–213


strong back, soft front, 
159–160


Styles, Harry, 
14


suck-in culture, 
33


Sun Tzu, 
153–154


Superhero Voice, 
115


Sweeney Todd
 (play), 
74


taking up space, 
47–49
. 
See also
 
size


Talk to Me
 (Smith), 
194–195


Tannen, Deborah, 
63–64


Tatar, Maria, 
43


Taxi Driver
 (film), 
167


Taylor, Recy, 
70


Taylor, Sonya Renee, 
47–48
, 
149


texting tone, 
143–144


thank-yous, 
77–78


Thatcher, Margaret, 
130


Theranos, 
131


This American Life
, 
57


This Is the Voice
 (Colapinto), 
51
, 
128


“This Is Your Brain on Communication” (TED Talk), 
243–244


three inalienable dignities, 
76


throat relaxation exercise, 
102–105


Thunberg, Greta, 
14
, 
138
, 
246


Thurston, Baratunde, 
14


Tilghman, Shirley, 
48


Tilly, William, 
180–183


timbre, 
142–143
. 
See also
 
tone


Tippett, Krista, 
120–121


Tolentino, Jia, 
14
, 
232


tone, 
139–161


background and overview, 
139–140


balancing strength and warmth, 
140–142
, 
144–155
, 
159–161


defined, 
139
, 
142–144


display rules for, 
89–90
, 
143


emotion of, 
83–84


gendered, 
141
, 
144


monotone, 
113–115
, 
118


new sound of power through, 
151–155
, 
159–161


owning the space through, 
155–159


of texting, 
143–144


Trick Mirror
 (Tolentino), 
232


Trimble, Michael, 
83


Tulshyan, Ruchika, 
49


Turner, Kathleen, 
129


unsticking of breath, 
37–38


upspeak, 
52–53
, 
55
, 
56
, 
57–58
, 
61–62
, 
64–71


Vaid-Menon Alok, 
14


“Valley Girl” (Zappa), 
58


values


in the changing workplace, 
108


feelings and emotions as reflection of, 
90–92
, 
96


imposter syndrome hack, 
78–79


inalienable dignities, 
76–77


personal power and, 
106–107
, 
156


strength-warmth interplay and, 
152–154
, 
160–161


warmth and, 
149–151


vocal freedom, 
114


vocal fry, 
52–53
, 
55
, 
56–58
, 
61–64
, 
68–71
, 
103


vocal hiding, 
92
, 
113–120


vocal nodules, 
4–5
, 
130
, 
164–165


voice. 
See
 
breath
; 
emotion
; 
heroism
; pitch; 
size
; 
sounds
; 
tone
; 
words


voice of authority


Beard on, 
3
, 
6–7


new sound of, 
11–16
. 
See also
 
new sound of power


pitch and, 
115
, 
126
, 
130–131


standardization of sound of language as, 
170–174
, 
176
, 
177–184


standards for, 
5–8
, 
43–44
, 
56
, 
109–110


tone and, 
141–142
, 
144


voice stories, 
124–126


voice work


breath exercises, 
35–41
, 
50
, 
205–207


emotion exercises, 
99–107


pitch exercises, 
71–73
, 
120–124


size exercises, 
71–73


speech writing guidelines, 
199–203
, 
237–239


word exercises, 
203–209


vulnerability


defined, 
84


on digital platforms, 
14
, 
84


engagement and, 
84–86
, 
93–94


heroism and, 
152
, 
230
, 
233–234


W20, 
10


Wadhwa, Hitendra, 
108


Waldman, Mark, 
122


Wallace, Nicolle, 
118


Wambach, Abby, 
214–215


warmth and strength


balancing of, 
140–142
, 
144–155
, 
159–161


owning the space through, 
155–159


Warren, Elizabeth, 
242–243


Waters, Maxine, 
246


Watson, Emma, 
19


“When the Hero Is the Problem” (Solnit), 
232–233


Whippman, Ruth, 
60


“white feminism,” 
154


Wiig, Kristen, 
58


Williams, Michelle, 
93


Williams, Serena, 
87–88


Williams, Tanya O., 
47


Wilson, Kate, 
177–179


Winfrey, Oprah, 
14
, 
54–55
, 
57
, 
62
, 
70
, 
146–147


Wolf, Lizzie, 
92–93
, 
95


Women & Power
 (Beard), 
3
, 
43


words, 
187–217


bunching/chunking of, 
199–202


color of, 
83


emotion of, 
83–84


expansion exercises, 
203–209


formal language and articulate-sounding speech, 
187–189
, 
194–197


Four 
S
’s of speech preparation, 
209–215


informal language, 
188
, 
196–198


new sound of power with, 
195
, 
215–217


permission to express yourself, 
189–193
, 
195
, 
198–199


Words Can Change Your Brain
 (Newberg and Waldman), 
122


Wordslut
 (Montell), 
65–66
, 
68
, 
129–130
, 
192


Work Like a Woman
 (Portas), 
152–153


Ybarra, Stephanie, 
216


“yes,” 
122


Yoquinto, Luke, 
228


You Just Don’t Understand
 (Tannen), 
63–64


Your Brain, Explained
 (Dingman), 
116–117


Yousafzai, Malala, 
14


Zappa, Frank, 
58


Zelenskyy, Volodymyr, 
93


Zenger Folkman, 
153






















Contents




Cover


About the Author


Title Page


Dedication


Introduction: The New Sound of Power


1. Breath
:
 
How to breathe like you’ve got permission to speak


2. Size
:
 
Vocal fry, upspeak, sorrys, and the size of your voice


3. Emotion
:
 
Own your feelings—for good


4. Pitch
:
 
The highs and lows of power


5. Tone
:
 
Talk to get heard


6. Sounds
:
 
Accent bias, white supremacy, and liking the voice you actually have


7. Words
:
 
The words you choose and how to say them like they’re yours


8. Heroism
:
 
How to talk about yourself (hint: it’s not about you, it’s about us)


Acknowledgments


Notes


Index


Copyright










275


v


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20


21


22


23


24


25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40


41


42


43


44


45


47


48


49


50


51


52


53


54


55


56


57


58


59


60


61


62


63


64


65


66


67


68


69


70


71


72


73


74


75


76


77


78


79


81


82


83


84


85


86


87


88


89


90


91


92


93


94


95


96


97


98


99


100


101


102


103


104


105


106


107


108


109


110


111


113


114


115


116


117


118


119


120


121


122


123


124


125


126


127


128


129


130


131


132


133


134


135


136


137


138


139


140


141


142


143


144


145


146


147


148


149


150


151


152


153


154


155


156


157


158


159


160


161


163


164


165


166


167


168


169


170


171


172


173


174


175


176


177


178


179


180


181


182


183


184


185


187


188


189


190


191


192


193


194


195


196


197


198


199


200


201


202


203


204


205


206


207


208


209


210


211


212


213


214


215


216


217


219


220


221


222


223


224


225


226


227


228


229


230


231


232


233


234


235


236


237


238


239


240


241


242


243


244


245


246


247


249


250


251


253


254


255


256


257


258


259


260


261


262


263


264


265


266


267


268


269


270


271


272


273


274








Cover


Frontmatter


Contents


Begin Reading





















THIS IS JUST 
THE BEGINNING




Find us online and join the conversation


Follow us on Twitter 
twitter.com/penguinukbooks


Like us on Facebook 
facebook.com/penguinbooks


Share the love on Instagram 
instagram.com/penguinukbooks


Watch our authors on YouTube 
youtube.com/penguinbooks


Pin Penguin books to your Pinterest 
pinterest.com/penguinukbooks


Listen to audiobook clips at 
soundcloud.com/penguin-books


Find out more about the author and discover
your next read at 
penguin.co.uk






























About the Author


Samara Bay helps women and other folks with fire in their belly find their public voice and use it well in the moments that matter. Her clients are political candidates, entrepreneurs, celebrities, rising leaders, rebels and dreamers. She’s taught at Pace University in Manhattan, the Alan Alda Center for Communicating Science and the Stella Adler Academy of Acting and Theatre in Los Angeles, and has presented and run workshops at organizations around the United States and abroad. Bay has an English degree from Princeton University and an MFA in acting from Brown University. Her work on rethinking the sound of power has been featured in 
The New York Times Magazine, Forbes, Slate
 and 
Jezebel,
 on 
CBS Sunday Morning,
 and as part of NBC’s Know Your Value.


She lives in Los Angeles with her husband, son and dog, Moxie.


samarabay.com





