



Table of Contents




Polymath: Master Multiple Disciplines, Learn New Skills, Think Flexibly, and Become Extraordinary Autodidact


Table of Contents


Chapter 1. Jack of All Trades




Master of None


What’s Your Shape?


The Renaissance Mindset


T-Shaped Problems






Chapter 2. The Polymathic Mind




Adaptable and Open


Experimental


Beginner


Belief


Relentless






Chapter 3. Novice to Expert in 10 Steps




Step 1: The Broad Overview


Step 2: Narrow the Scope


Step 3: Define Success


Step 4: Compiling Resources


Step 5: Create a Curriculum


Step 6: Filter, Filter, Filter


Step 7: Dive In


Step 8: Exploration


Step 9: Clarification


Step 10: Teach


The Power of Notes






Chapter 4. Intentional Discovery




Einstein and Combinatory Play


Stacking


Stack Strategically






Chapter 5. Standing on the Shoulders of Giants




The Original Renaissance Man


The Inventor of the German Language


The Man who Proved Isaac Newton Wrong


The Man Who Thought, Therefore He Was


The Builder of Pyramids


Distilled Knowledge






Summary Guide











Polymath:
 
Master Multiple Disciplines, Learn New Skills, Think Flexibly, and Become Extraordinary Autodidact


 


 


By Peter Hollins, Author and Researcher at 
petehollins.com


 


 


Click for your FREE Human Nature Cheat Sheet: 7 Surprising Psychology Studies That Will Change the Way You Think









Chapter 1. Jack of All Trades


 


 


 


 


 


 


Benjamin Franklin is one of American history’s most successful and influential figures. What exactly was he famous for? At this point he’s mostly relegated to political theory, but during his own time, he was known for just about 
everything
. 


Franklin was an accomplished inventor, respected politician and leading scientist. He engaged with current affairs, wrote prolifically on many topics, and acted as a diplomat, statesman, and passionate activist. He was a businessman who founded many organizations, such as the University of Pennsylvania and the first ever fire department in Philadelphia. 


Franklin was a postmaster and political satirist. He invented a more efficient freestanding stove, a musical instrument (the armonica, if you’re interested) and bifocals to deal with his own failing vision. He dabbled in electricity and conducted the famous lightning, metal key, and kite experiment. Oh, and he was one of the five key people who put together the American Declaration of Independence and the American Constitution. 


His immense contributions to a wide range of fields make people wonder where the United States of American would even be without Benjamin Franklin. Many schoolchildren accidentally believe he was a president at some point—it’s not true, but it isn’t hard to imagine the man finding time to run a country on the side of the countless other projects, inventions and enterprises he managed. 


So, what is Benjamin Franklin famous for? 


We could say that this sheer 
breadth
 of knowledge distinguishes him—i.e. that he’s a “polymath.” This term from the Greek means, “having learnt much” and was seemingly made for men like Franklin. Polymaths have knowledge in a wide range of subjects and fields, rather than specializing in just one. They are accomplished in multiple disciplines, seemingly thriving in the field of human enquiry itself, beyond the boundaries we draw between categories of study. The world’s most famous polymaths blend academic fields or create new ones from scratch. They are the quintessential “Renaissance men” who can do a little (or a lot) of everything and inspire us to imagine what the limits of human understanding and learning really are. It seems like they possess superpowers considering their prowess in multiple realms of knowledge. Other famous polymaths are also people you know by name and reputation—Leonardo da Vinci, Rene Descartes, Elon Musk, Plato, Isaac Newton, Galileo, Michelangelo, Archimedes, and so on. It may not be possible to reach the levels of these people, but the quest of polymathism is something that could very well boost your life to new heights. Rather than being an inherent quality, it can be learned and cultivated by anyone—including you.


This book is about what it means to become a polymath, a Renaissance man, and a versatile autodidact (someone who “teaches themselves”). In our complex modern world of increasingly narrow specialization, we can instead choose to develop ourselves holistically—becoming our best in the sciences, the arts, politics, academics, engineering, social affairs, literature, sports, and spiritual matters. 


Our goal as aspiring polymaths is therefore to become the kind of well-rounded and multiply accomplished human beings who can do 
all
 of these things with a degree of expertise. The name of the game is development, learning and mastery—the particular fields we develop ourselves in are almost beside the point.


Master of None


Have you heard the expression, “Jack of all trades, master of none?” It’s not a positive connotation that we associate with people who have many interests and spread their time around liberally.


Despite revering intellectual powerhouses like Benjamin Franklin, in real life some of us are dismissive of people who flit about, never settling in one field but entertaining several (sometimes wildly different) interests. The debate between the generalist and the specialist is ongoing and has fallen in and out of favor throughout history. When you survey the most prominent and successful scientists, it’s easy to see that the majority were decidedly generalists. Rather than taking a shallow and ineffectual approach, they seemed instead to achieve even more for the fact that they had multiple interests at any one time. 


Ultra-successful entrepreneurs have also been known to dabble widely, and continue to undertake projects of all stripes after they find success in one area. We could argue that these people are all geniuses who engaged with multiple disciplines 
because
 they were smart and successful, rather than the idea that their success was in part their versatility. 


But on the other hand, there are now several convincing studies showing a link between a person’s achievements and the number of distinct interests and skills they hold. A 2009 paper by Robert Root-Bernstein explored data from Nobel Laureates in all disciplines and found a strong connection between creativity and being a polymath, thus challenging the idea that specialization is required for success.


Let’s take a closer look. When most people talk about famous polymaths, they are referring to people who have not just earned competencies in different areas, but who manage to creatively 
integrate
 those abilities—and the sum is inevitably greater than the parts!


These are the people who are adept at not just one type of problem (and therefore one type of solution) but who are skillful at 
learning
 itself. They can blend and cross-pollinate ideas, methods and solutions from all across mankind’s rich tapestry, which often allows them to come up with game-changing Big Ideas. Many of the true leaps in a particular field or science have come from intelligent visitors from other disciplines who brought a fresh perspective and found a way to link material to the benefit of both fields—or even the creation of an entirely new branch. 


Imagine a T-shape. The horizontal bar on the top represents 
breadth
 of knowledge across domains, while the vertical bar represents 
depth
 of knowledge in just one area. If you’ve read Malcolm Gladwell’s 
Outliers
, you may be familiar with the “10,000 hour” rule, which claims that 10,000 hours of deliberate quality practice makes one an expert in a particular field. But this may not really apply to polymaths—they appear to make deep breakthroughs without putting in the hours. 


It’s as though the creative combining of skills across disciplines allows for quicker breakthroughs than merely hammering away in just one field, unaware of anything else in other domains. When it comes to business or entrepreneurial polymaths, something else becomes clear: being a generalist often means way less competition—it’s an open field. A T-shape is not the goal for a polymath; rather, a 
pi
 shape is, or even a comb shape, representing depth of knowledge in multiple realms. The specific combinations of these realms is where the magic happens.


Charles Darwin, Elon Musk and Leonardo da Vinci are famous polymaths, but you don’t need to reach their level to benefit from their approach. You don’t need several degrees, or to dabble in the same topics (physics, politics, business and literature are all common—but rather than assuming there’s something fundamental about these topics, ask 
why
 a polymath would be drawn to them).


Being a polymath does require something of a perspective shift: rather than running as far as you can in a single race, you open your field of perception to take in as much as possible, and draw atypical connections to link the knowledge you already have in surprising ways. Be probing and bold in thought; ask unusual questions and put things together that are ordinarily separate, just to see what happens. 


A person might work in an ordinary office job doing, say, digital marketing. But they may be a voracious reader in their spare time, an active member in local politics and a regular contributor to an out-there fiction magazine group that publishes poetry and short stories. 


Such a person might use, for example, their knowledge of Eric Berne’s psychological “game” model together with a keen understanding of the political climate in the area to design a new “reputation management package” for their clients, thus winning them a promotion to manage this new department in the company. 


Rather than simply plowing away in the same old conceptual ruts, this person uses a 
creative blend
 of their skills and knowledge base to promote themselves in the workplace and literally open up new, potentially lucrative avenues. As is the case with many polymaths, they almost create their own jobs and roles, using their unique personalities and combination of skills to pursue precisely what interests them—often for profit. 


It may be that in our modern world, we reward those who can synthesize, network, and create in the face of incredible competition and complexity. As E.M. Forster famously advised, “only connect.” Read your chemistry book from a literature perspective. Ask what communist philosopher Karl Marx would say about the gig economy. If your interests include cooking, psychotherapy, gender studies, and business, why not experiment with an all-male “cooking therapy” group where older men can form beneficial connections with one another while they learn to cook for themselves after a divorce? 


Unfortunately, even though we live in a world almost literally run by polymaths like Jeff Bezos, most of us still cling to conventional wisdom that artificially creates the idea of distinct disciplines in the first place. We all went to schools that sliced up the curriculum into chunks. How many of us believe that some people are artsy, language types and others are math and sciencey types, and the two can never have much to do with each other? True polymaths disregard limitations like these. Diversity, for them, is a blessing, and the more interests, the merrier. 


In this book, we’ll not only consider all the ways that human beings are naturally polymaths, but also examine the very good reasons why you might like to enhance this ability in yourself, not just for personal fulfillment, but for academic and financial success as well. 


Being a specialist requires you to perform in the top 1 percent (for example) of just one discipline. A polymath will perform in, say, the top 25 percent of three disciplines or more. And here you see the first main advantage: being a polymath is actually easier, from this point of view. You can more quickly find yourself in the top 25 percent than in the 1 percent. How do you do this? Well, you “stand on the shoulders of giants.” You needn’t invent the wheel anew each time. Part of a polymath’s invaluable skillset is knowing how to quickly find and synthesize the highest quality information. This concept known as skill stacking is central to a later chapter in this book.


Specialists the world over have done the heavy lifting, and left a record for us. They’ve carried out in-depth testing and accumulated increasingly high-quality knowledge, while filtering out less robust material. Today we are blessed to have free access to this content, along with online courses, videos, free journal articles of original research and material in the public domain. Now more than ever, someone dedicated to learning can find a wonderland of resources out there, virtually for free. 


What Benjamin Franklin had to do with a quill pen, poor eyesight and no internet, we can do today from the comfort of our sofas—and pick up where he left off!


We may take it for granted, but consider the wealth of specialist knowledge now easily available via a simple site like YouTube. In the past, you’d have to make real connections with other experts, go to the library or learn things the hard way. But today you could easily teach yourself an obscure skill, learn a new language, create software from your living room or launch an international business in an afternoon. 


Some people look at the world and see all the big ideas as already thought out, all the inventions as already created. But a polymath knows there are endless ways to combine what already exists. How else do we have fields like evolutionary psychology, or the idea of the gut-brain axis? Once combined, these fields themselves open up new avenues again—how exciting! For polymaths, there is simply no limit. Growth is exponential, when your strategy is combinatorial. There are no boundaries when you think in connected, holistic ways. It’s the best way to break through a plateau or solve a problem that seems unsolvable. 


Another advantage is flexibility. The polymath approach is about diversifying, and the more varied your resources, the more resilient and adaptable to change. It goes a little further than future-proofing your career—a real polymath designs their own career. They don’t have to worry about being left behind in dying industries; they’re the ones at the vanguard, growing the new industries in the first place. 


You will naturally ask what is evolving and what the “next big thing” is if you have your finger on the pulse of human development and evolution. In fact, you may find success simply by being one of the first to capitalize on a new idea that others haven’t taken the time to properly explore. None of us can predict the future, but it stands to reason that the more options you have on the go, the more likely it is that one of those will take off. Consequently, you have other things to fall back on should one of your projects fail. 


Finally, there’s a more subtle benefit to being a polymath, as we move into the future. The problems Ben Franklin and his ilk faced were immense, but of a different scale entirely to the ones we have today. Think climate change, wealth inequality on a global scale, political instability, or the threat of complex novel diseases. 


Being complicated and impossibly large, problems like these will 
need
 an integrated approach. The challenges facing humanity right now cannot be solved by specialists. They can, however, be tackled by polymaths who understand how to skillfully bring together the best from each specialist, to make a solution as nuanced and complex as the problem itself. In many ways, the dilemmas of the future will take a little creative, fresh, out-of-the-box thinking.


Individuals who can demonstrate this new meta-skill will distinguish themselves in all avenues—like our marketing employee example. Polymaths will not only engage with life in deeply fulfilling ways, they’ll bring value to others in ways that are directly profitable to them. Original thinkers are always at a premium, and this is the case now more than ever.


What’s Your Shape?


Being a polymath doesn’t necessarily mean you have to fashion yourself after the great “Renaissance men” of old, taking up political life or oil painting or basement science experiments. In fact, modern polymathy will look distinctly different, and can even apply to groups or organizations of people with diverse domain knowledge. Your goal as a polymath is to become a generalist, i.e. the person who can talk about any topic with anyone, because they are able to bridge gaps, draw connections and 
learn
. 


Remember the T-shape? If your skills profile resembled this shape, you would be a generalist to a shallow level with just one depth understanding in one field. This is definitely better than being an “I” shape, with no general knowledge at all, only a depth skill. But it’s not as good as a pi-shape (π), with two areas of depth knowledge, or even a comb shape, with several depth branches off a more general knowledge base. 


But you can go further. Essentially, as a polymath, you want to diversify and reap the benefits of specialization and diversification. You need some general expertise to put into context a well-chosen inventory of more in-depth knowledge. You don’t want to get lost in the narrow alley of just a single endeavor, losing all perspective and connection with the rest of the world, and you also don’t want to skim the surface without truly grasping the field and as a result making weak, superficial connections.


Polymaths find themselves in their position because of their natural intellectual curiosity. They don’t deliberately set out to develop a particular skills profile, but allow it to grow organically based on their own innate limitations, the emerging opportunities around them, their skills and passions, the demand from the environment, and so on. Some tasks in life will naturally be better suited to a depth approach (slower-moving fields that are quite nuanced) and others better completed with a generalist approach of skimming for the big ideas and moving on (the faster-moving fields that are liable to change within a few years anyway). A polymath combines both for maximum results.


For example, a woman might have studied a very general business degree but keeps her other interests alive, too. She spends a lot of time gaining depth understanding of the more fundamental and lasting business principles, but constantly flits around when it comes to supplementing her knowledge on more short-term interests. 


She takes short courses on app development, learns to code, volunteers, takes up a glass-blowing hobby and reads anything from self-help books to continental philosophy, beat poetry, art history and pulpy horror novels from the ’60s. While she is certainly a polymath, she focuses many of her interests around the more general backbone of business studies, which acts as a framework and organizing principle. 


Now, add in another element: time. Some polymaths are not literally juggling all of this at the same time; they can choose to be serial specialists, spending a few years on each project, developing one of the depth prongs before moving on to another. Such a person might not immediately look like a polymath, but over time they are steadily accumulating skills, mental models, connections and possibilities. 


The longer they work and study, the more content they have to draw on and the richer their palette becomes. In fact, one could abandon the old shapes entirely and consider becoming star shaped, with interests expanding outwards in all directions. This is a decidedly non-linear way of looking at things, and emphasizes the value of expanding your skillset to cover the full span of human endeavor. 


To develop a star-shaped profile yourself, look to how you can put yourself in the top 25 percent of at least three areas, but preferably more. Seek mastery in a physical art (say, running or dancing), an intellectual one (for example, your main occupational skill) and a social or relational one (you could take a counseling course, volunteer or participate in a local political cause). Then, you can naturally start branching off on related tangents—consider teaching dance, using your volunteer experiences to add value to yourself and your colleagues, and accessing your occupational network to find new connections and people to advance both of these endeavors. This is how polymaths organically grow their own empires—by making creative connections between just a few key areas. 


David Epstein’s polymath bible, 
Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World, 
again studies Nobel prize laureates, and Epstein found that these people were an astounding twenty-two times more likely to be amateur dancers, actors, poets, tinkerers and so on, compared to more mediocre scientists. The conclusion is clear: being a jack of all trades not only doesn’t distract from your efficacy in your chosen discipline(s), it may well positively benefit your success in at least one of those fields. 


Marketing experts are always saying that a business needs to clearly identify its USP—a unique selling proposition. For a polymath, uniqueness is always a given. They often succeed because they are the first to come up with truly novel connections.


Parenting, business, education and even sports—there is no area of life that these principles don’t apply to. Being a well-rounded and exquisitely unique individual will not only equip you with a range of valuable skills to draw on and combine, but will fundamentally strengthen your fluid intelligence and the underlying ability to think, learn on your feet, synthesize knowledge and create—regardless of what discipline you find yourself in. 


The Renaissance Mindset 


Business consultant and author Frans Johansson describes the 
Medici effect
 as the emergence of new ideas and creative solutions when different backgrounds and disciplines come together. The term is derived from the 15th-century Medici family, who helped usher in the Renaissance by bringing together artists, writers, philosophers, mathematicians, and other creatives from all over the world. Arguably, the Renaissance was a result of the exchange of ideas between these different groups in close proximity with each other in 15th-century Florence and Rome. Sound familiar? If you are unable to diversify your own talent and skill, then having others around you to compensate might very well just do the trick.


Johansson proposes that in the modern business world as well, the Medici effect is the key to best meeting client needs and maximizing profits while minimizing costs. Believing that all new ideas come from merging existing notions in creative ways, he recommends utilizing a mix of backgrounds, experiences, and expertise in staffing to bring about the best possible solutions, perspectives, and innovations in business. 


And the same holds true for creativity and problem-solving in general as well: pulling in knowledge from different disciplines and relating concepts from various fields are powerful tools for generating creative ideas. A common object in one field may be an extraordinary tool in another. A perspective or approach might be commonplace in one discipline but revolutionary in a different one. A conventional concept in one discipline may have new and interesting applications in a different domain. 


For example, creative methods of implementing traffic rules have pulled ideas from not only electronics, engineering, and information technology but also from visual arts, psychology, and advertising. It’s a familiar concept in psychology that people, when making decisions, rely on not only rational information but also emotional cues. This concept has led to the innovation of using smiley faces in traffic lights to get more people to respond to them.


The advantages of pulling together knowledge and resources from multiple disciplines to aid problem-solving are evident in the findings of researcher and professor Brian Uzzi. Analyzing over 26 million scientific papers published over the last several centuries, Professor Uzzi found that the most impactful have been those done by teams whose members have an atypical combination of backgrounds. Another investigation he conducted revealed that top-performing studies cited an uncommon combination of other studies, often pulling in at least 10 percent of their citations from fields other than their own. 


It is perhaps no coincidence that we still speak of Leonardo da Vinci and his polymathic tendencies—perhaps it is due to those very tendencies. At the very least, he was an accomplished painter, sculptor, engineer, architect, and anatomist. He also possessed keen interests in ornithology, machinery, and ciphers. He is the prime example of how different disciplines can come together, synergize, and spit out creative work that is revolutionary and innovative. It is also no coincidence that the Medici family was one of da Vinci’s prime patrons during his lifetime.


Albert Einstein also utilized this concept in his method of 
combinatory play
, which we will cover in a later chapter when we delve more deeply into his specific tactics for creativity and innovative thinking. 


T-Shaped Problems 


What if honing specialist knowledge and skill could actually act against you in some ways? 


Enter the 
Einstellung effect
 (German for “setting” or “attitude”), which explains why only embodying a T-shape can inadvertently reduce your creative problem-solving skills, and trap you in a prison of your own knowledge. 


Nobody would argue that developing niche expertise is a waste; however, this expertise can also act as a burden and hindrance. If, as an expert, you rely on the knowledge and experience you already have, you are at a distinct disadvantage wherever novelty of thought is called for. Have you ever seen a layperson offer a more creative or intelligent solution to a problem than all the so-called experts? This effect could explain why. If you know exactly how something should and usually does play out, then it’s hard to break out of this type of fixed thinking. 


To the man with the hammer, everything looks like a nail.


Research actually shows that practiced expertise hampers creative problem-solving in some instances. Accumulated knowledge is a wonderful thing, but it’s also stiff and rigid, and less liable to respond fluidly in the moment. Experts may cling to a classic and obvious solution so tightly that they fail to see the better alternative staring them in the face. 


The Einstellung effect was first described in 1942 by Luchins and Luchins, who had study participants conduct a water jar experiment, amongst many other variations. They asked them to measure out a specific quantity of water using a series of three jars of different capacities. One group was allowed to try out the task and arrive at a formula that would solve the problem. The other group didn’t participate in this round. 


Both groups were then given a similar task, but where the solution was quite simple. The group who had already gained expertise of the formula unsurprisingly tried to apply it again, missing the simpler solution—which the second group, with no practice or experience, found more easily. 


This outcome shows us that prior knowledge can act as a preconceived solution that can actively block a better option from being discovered. Counterintuitively, the first group were the “experts,” but performed worse because of it. It certainly makes you reconsider all those experts in the world keen to tell us how things should be done! Knowing this about the Einstellung effect, and knowing that experts often charge more for their services, you can ask whether some problems in your life could be better solved by more creative (and cheaper!) non-experts. 


Follow-up research has showed similar results with creativity puzzles that non-experts seem to fare better with. Karl Duncker’s famous Candle Problem showed that when people had preconceived ideas about how tools should be used (in this case, a box of matches, a candle and some thumbtacks), they failed to find unconventional solutions (mounting the candle on the wall by using the matchbox as a ledge rather than lighting the candle with the matches). What the participants already knew actively prevented them from seeing what was in front of them, and learning anything new. 


Of course, what if the participants’ knowledge base was more pi-shaped, or even comb-shaped, and they were able to draw in solutions and approaches from different industries and realms of knowledge? Well, you already know the probable outcome. Here’s food for thought: if you are T-shaped, no matter the reason, it is akin to working on the assembly line in one of Henry Ford’s factories. That is, each person has one function only, and as such, can be easily replaced at any time. The more polymathic you can be, the more functions you can inhabit, and the less replaceable you will become. 


In the next section we’ll consider not the literal activities that polymaths are drawn to, but the underlying attitude that allows them to work as they do.


Takeaways:




When we think of the word polymath, we think of geniuses throughout history whose achievements we have no chance of coming close to. That may be true, but there are nuggets of knowledge we can utilize from studying their approaches and combination of mastery. A polymath is someone who is an expert in multiple fields. It may seem like an oversimplification, but that’s the essence of it. However, the magic happens when these multiple fields collide and help you navigate, solve problems, and think outside of the box.


The approach espoused in this book is to become at least pi-shaped, and ideally comb- or even star-shaped. This stands in stark contrast to being T-shaped. Horizontal lines represent breadth of knowledge, while vertical ones show depth of knowledge. Who has time for that? Well, plenty of people—and there are multiple studies showing the efficacy of teams with diverse backgrounds, individuals with a wide array of talents, and the high performance of people who apply old knowledge to new situations—Leonardo da Vinci, Elon Musk, Benjamin Franklin, and Aristotle to name a few. This type of intermixing is theorized to actually have caused the Renaissance period in Florence, Italy. 


It may seem like we’re beating a dead horse already, but the importance of gaining diversity of knowledge cannot be overstated. There is even a problem associated with having too much knowledge in one field, a dilemma of expertise that runs too deep. This is called the Einstellung effect, and it essentially describes the man with a hammer who sees everything as a nail. The deeper you are immersed in one subject, the harder it is to see other tools, methods, approaches, and perspectives outside of your own. A biologist will see only biology-related problems, and so on. 


The easiest way to think about polymathy is to picture working on the assembly line in one of Henry Ford’s factories. That is, each person has one function only, and as such, can be easily replaced at any time. The more polymathic you can be, the more functions you can inhabit, and the less replaceable you will become.




 


 









Chapter 2. The Polymathic Mind


 


 


 


 


 


 


Given what we know now about polymaths, the natural question is to ask what we can learn from their approach, and how best we can set ourselves up to succeed in a quickly changing world. This requires of us a little more creative thinking than merely asking, “What skills are valuable in the marketplace right now? What’s the next big thing?” 


The truth is that successful polymaths are primarily driven by insatiable curiosity, a love for their fields, a yearning for mastery, creativity and expression—or a blend of all of these. They may not share anything in common as far as their fields of expertise go, but they certainly share the same zest for life and set of traits that keep them pushing for more.


Thus it is not enough to simply mimic the end results of polymaths’ process. We need to ask 
how
 they’ve thought and worked, rather than getting bogged down in the details of 
what
 they’ve done. It’s about what has spurred them to develop a pi or comb shape instead of remaining as a simple T-shape.


Many people falsely believe that, to remain competitive, they need to upskill in all the fashionable and trending ways. People ask how they can learn to write computer code or trade cryptocurrencies, for example, not because this is where their passion genuinely takes them, but because they’re swayed by the stories of tech entrepreneurs who have already gone this (now well-travelled) path. 


Unfortunately, this is a losing strategy for two reasons: one because by the time a trend is identifiable as such, it’s already on its way to being over, and two because mimicking others leaves you failing to capitalize on your own unique talents and perspective. 


Adaptable and Open


The 
spirit
 of polymathy is what’s important, and it’s largely independent of any particular fields, subjects, or topics, no matter how relevant they seem on the surface. It’s about versatility, flexibility, and openness.


As an example, consider a person who believes that the future of clothing design and manufacture is changing, and that to survive they have to offer products that are ethically produced and appeal to more environmentally conscious buyers. Sounds good so far. 


Such a person may find themselves working in fashion or textile buying, and try their best to build and market a new brand using all the old business principles that work for more traditional clothing manufacturers. But in their rigidity and dogged clinging to these methods, they may find themselves unwilling to change or learn something new, ignoring more subtle changes in the industry, failing to heed warnings that the “old ways” of doing things just won’t work anymore. 


Another person, a devoted polymath, may work in an entirely different field but simultaneously nurture a passion for buying and selling secondhand or vintage clothing. Though this person has zero business education and no experience, they have their finger on the true pulse of the fashion industry—renting and secondhand is the future. They act quickly and on inspiration, and within a year have established a thriving online clothing exchange platform that completely disrupts the market. 


While the previous person is stalling in their career, the polymath achieves success with seemingly lightning speed and without following any of the rules. This is because their approach is not bound and limited by preconceptions, old models, possibly outdated beliefs and “business as usual” thinking. 


Rather than this example being an anomaly, it’s increasingly the norm: minimally trained and modestly experienced entrepreneurs frequently swoop in and succeed by virtue of their flexibility, creativity, and sometimes, sheer audacity.


Here, mindset and attitude mean everything. This means being willing to adapt when necessary, to become comfortable and even expert at navigating quickly changing parameters and shifting challenges. A polymath typically doesn’t react to adversity by asking what he can do to survive—
he is usually already doing
 
it
 when the opportunity rolls his way. Rather than reactive, survival-mode thinking, the polymath engages with ideas and topics long before everyone else, often simply because he enjoys doing so. This is why it’s so important not to merely ape what polymaths 
do
, but to closely examine the mindset and perspective that leads them to act that way when others are choosing differently. 


Let’s examine this attitude more closely. 


Firstly, a lesson any polymath can teach us is a healthy disregard for rules. Creative, inventive people see rules as provisional, and boundaries as mere working models until something better can be created or discovered. They know that right and wrong are often matters of (possibly flawed) opinion and don’t let ordinary convention limit what they’re willing to think about and imagine. 


After all, engaging with material and ideas that are outside humanity’s comfort zone requires you to suspend your ordinary judgments and assumptions. The inventor has an exuberance and curiosity that goes beyond what others may tell him is allowed or correct.


Going hand in hand with this attitude, necessarily, is an abiding comfort with uncertainty. For intelligent, creative people, there is a degree of responsibility associated with asking big questions and expecting answers. 


Many historical polymaths held this attitude—“I didn’t find the solution I wanted in the world, so I made it myself.” This deep individuality and freedom comes from a willingness to tolerate the unknown, to act without complete information, to take risks and to live in a world that isn’t already inhabited and charted by authorities who can tell you what you need to do. 


Polymaths fail often, and sometimes extravagantly. They don’t care—while others might think of unknowns and possible failures as intolerable, polymaths are not only able to march ahead, but to thrive in these conditions.  


Without a sincere curiosity and love for developing authentic knowledge and mastery, people can seldom endure the process it takes to reach grand, long-term goals. But these are precisely the goals that most polymaths hold dear. They focus on what they want and don’t allow anything to limit them—including their own irrational fears or laziness.


Finally, polymaths think of themselves in the same way they think of the various subjects they readily engage with—without the restriction and burden of boxes and oversimplified labels. When you think about it, so many of us are surprisingly ready to label ourselves one way or another, happy to take on the implied limitations. Polymaths don’t bother; they seldom define themselves, and keep open to possibility and potential as long as possible.  


Consider that today we have more labels for sexual identity and orientation than ever. You can choose which political party, personality type, blood group, demographic or social class you belong to, and place immense significance in these labels. There are labels for what religious beliefs you have or don’t have, the sports teams you support, the nation you’re part of, the race, even the media you consume and in what language. You can even take a DNA test to more precisely identify which ethnic groups you belong to. 


The trouble with all this rampant labeling is that it closes you off to genuine, authentic, spontaneous engagement with life as it is, rather than life as someone-who-is-like-you sees it. For example, you tell yourself “I’m not an R&B person, I hate it to be honest” and completely forego listening to an artist you might have actually loved. Your identity here acted as a limitation, clearly separating what you felt was part of your world and what wasn’t.


Polymaths, by setting these limitations far less often, allow themselves greater access to new realms. They don’t care if a certain idea, behavior or question isn’t for people like them, and they certainly aren’t afraid to change their minds or question whether a previous preference is still useful. They are agnostic in their pursuit for an answer or a goal, and preconceptions, assumptions, and pride are put to the side. 


This is a profound idea that bears repeating: our concept of ourselves informs the experiences and knowledge we are willing to expose ourselves to. It can even become a self-fulfilling prophecy: tell yourself often enough that you are a particular type of person, and you’ll eventually take enough actions to support that claim that it will essentially be true. 


To get into the polymath mindset, ask yourself about the choices that you make, the opinions you have and the questions you ask—are you simply acting off of a preconceived idea of your identity? You vote, shop, speak and work like an ABC because you’re an ABC and that’s what ABCs do. However, people change. How will know if you never allow for the possibility that one day you might do or want or feel something that goes against your old identity?


The key to rolling with change—and to being an adaptable, flexible polymath thinker—is to not cling too tightly to ideas of who we are and what our limits are. Are you the same person now that you were ten or twenty years ago? If not, you probably shouldn’t behave as though the way you are now is the fixed, final form of your identity forevermore. 


By being fluid and taking nothing for granted—not even the identity of the person who could take anything for granted—a polymath stays fresh and open to change, to new opportunities. They grow faster and with less disturbance, since they don’t cling to old ideas that no longer work. They’re not afraid to acknowledge when they’ve been wrong or abandon a project, even if they’ve invested considerably in it. 


For an intelligent, curious polymath, there is never an end-state where identity is fixed, all questions are answered, and life simply stands still. Of course, you want to uphold and honor your values. Yes, you have your preferences and your loves and your habits. But unlike others, you regularly subject those loves and preferences and habits to question, and constantly ask if something is working optimally, or if it can be better. 


Polymaths don’t waste time identifying as anyone in particular—they see their identities as whatever they need to be to help them do whatever it is they want to do. That’s often why you see truly accomplished people shrinking away from others labeling them a “genius.” This shows that their efforts are not about bolstering an ego or sense of identity—it’s not about who they are, but what they do, what they know, and what they can learn.


Experimental


So, polymaths are open-minded, curious, and a little fearless. They can’t be defined easily, and they like it that way. 


Another element of the polymath worldview that bears looking at is what can only be called an “experimental mindset.” There’s a reason so many famous polymaths throughout history have been involved in some way or another with the “hard sciences.” There’s something about the scientific method that captures and formalizes a polymath’s natural curiosity. Scientific experiments asks questions such as:


“How does the world actually work? Why did this thing behave this way and not some other way? How can I look more closely at it? What happens if I do this and what does this show me about this weird thing I’m trying to learn about?”


Though scientific thinking may come more naturally to some people than others, there are always ways to encourage and cultivate this ability. It only requires a subtle but important shift in thinking: don’t just assume something, 
test it out for real
. Everyone always says such-and-so is the case, but do you have evidence? You don’t know how a new plan or idea will pan out—so why not test it? 


Experimentation is something that’s a little easier to understand in terms of actual physics or chemistry, but in reality, there are countless real-world benefits to conducting experiments in every area of life. One benefit is that, by thinking about practical implementation, you take any hypothetical “one day” ideas and force them into the present, without perfectionism preventing them from ever amounting to anything. 


Waiting for the perfect time or perfect opportunity often means you never act or learn anything new—but if you just try something, test it out or give it a spin even though it’s not perfect yet, you’ll advance more than if you’d dawdled and procrastinated.


By conducting experiments, you give yourself access to what all scientists want: quality data. You can talk hypothetically for years and never have anything tangible to show for it. That’s because trying things out 
for real
 gives you information you can actually use. 


Experimentation offers you the opportunity to try something different, and see how it goes. When you frame your personal development, challenges or goals as experiments, you take the pressure off while simultaneously getting you acting sooner. Many of us live with so many unchallenged assumptions that we could be free of if only we gave ourselves the chance to test something better.


Experimentation is a window for change. When you try something different, you are saying to the world: “I’m open-minded and curious as to the outcome. This may lead to something new and better, who knows!” Have you met older people who talk wistfully about all the things they could have done in their youth but didn’t? When you experiment, you don’t wonder how things could have turned out—you do them, so you 
know
. Consequently, you open up a whole new vista of choice and potential change for yourself. 


The word “experiment” implies something formal, rigorous, and lab-based. But you can carry out informal experiments all the time, on your own terms. If you find yourself procrastinating, try on the curious polymath scientist’s attitude for size: become curious, and commit only to testing something out. What would happen if you tried X or Y? It’s not the end of the world—only a form of asking questions, when it comes down to it. Take up a new hobby or habit for thirty days. Eat something new even if you have a suspicion you won’t like it. Say “yes” even though you’re a bit apprehensive.


Kicking yourself out of mundane day-to-day life and ordinary ruts and habits with experiments means opening a little window wide enough to ask, 
What if I did something different?
 You might find yourself convinced after the experiment of a certain course of action’s value, or prove to yourself what a bad idea it would have been without going all-in. 


Seeing tangible results to a mini experiment gives you a sense of agency over your world. You can ask questions, get answers and feedback, and ask better questions next time round. In other words, you can grow and learn. 


Finally, if you want to make the spirit of experimental thinking a reality in your life, you need to lay the groundwork to make that possible. How? By encouraging an open sense of safety around experimentation. You need to feel able to fail without disastrous consequences or pressures. 


Like creativity, curiosity cannot thrive in a hostile or risky atmosphere. If you perceive threat, your mind is likely to dwell on an attitude of conservative survival rather than expansive exploring and generous creativity. If you want to follow the polymath example, make room in your life to play, to explore, to ask questions—without judgment from an inner critic or fears that you have to be perfect or else.  


Start by changing your very definition of failure. It doesn’t make sense to be squeamish about failure—in fact, expect that it will and does happen, and is merely par for the course. 


Instead of thinking that failure is humiliating, or proof that you’re doing something wrong or even worse, that 
you’re
 wrong, frame it as a necessary part of learning and growing. Learn to respect failure as part of the process, rather than a distraction from it. The experimental mindset, above all else, is the commitment to forever being in experiment: you try something, you see the results, you adjust, you try again. Repeat until the day you die. 


What’s more, when you can center passion, curiosity and resilience against change and “failure,” something else starts to happen. Your mind slowly switches from the end point to the process itself. You begin to enjoy the path toward finding knowledge, not merely the prize of achievement at the end. What many polymaths do without being taught is focus on “process, not outcomes.” They create for the joy of creating. Solve problems because they relish the experience of working through them. 


With time, the diligent effort to think experimentally can be internalized and become a joyous flow in the moment—with you continually updating and reevaluating as you go. In other words, learning and evolving becomes second nature. You do it for fun! Focus on the process, and you almost aren’t bothered by the outcome—even if it is considered a “failure.” When you maintain an experimental, open-minded attitude, you always win, no matter what your outcomes.


Beginner


The mindset of a 
beginner
—even to the point of considering yourself a novice or amateur in something you’ve been familiar with for years—is extremely beneficial in helping you view the world as a learning grounds to continually develop your self and embrace the need for mental flexibility. By definition, any beginner is experimenting with something new and is also attempting to be open-minded, no matter the motivation.


Polymaths might seem to be multifaceted experts, but there’s a problem with that perspective. A common misconception about being an “expert”—even among experts—is that it implies you don’t have to learn anything anymore. You’ve reached the fullest extent of knowledge possible in a given situation, and any suggestion that you could still learn more is almost insulting. You think—or feel—that you’ve already transcended all limitations and that there’s nowhere to go but down.


However, ideally, there’s not much difference between a beginner’s mindset and an expert’s. That’s because when someone decides they want to become an expert on any subject, the first thing they have to accept is that they will 
never stop learning
 about that subject. Long after they’ve established themselves as an authority, they will still be learning and discovering just how much they still don’t know. A true expert never stops wanting to fill in those gaps. The expert and the beginner therefore share an openness to new knowledge and insight.


The beginner’s mindset is drawn from the Zen Buddhist concept 
Shoshin
, described as “having an attitude of openness, eagerness, and lack of preconceptions when studying a subject, even when studying at an advanced level, just as a beginner in that subject would.”


Every time you come across a new or even a familiar situation, no matter how shopworn or streetwise you think you are, reorient yourself to experiencing it as a beginner. Release all of your preconceived notions or expectations about the experience. Treat it with curiosity and a sense of wonder, as if you were seeing it for the first time. 


As a quick illustration, imagine you see a herd of zebras outside of your bedroom window—hopefully a novel situation for you. Once you get over your initial shock, what are your initial observations and questions? 


Does this situation remind you of something you’re already familiar with or have seen in a movie, perhaps? You’d try to make sense of it all and construct a narrative to understand it. What happened beforehand, and what will happen after? What details are surprising or downright odd when you think beyond first glance? You’d certainly focus on questions of “why” and “how.” You would probably also be overwhelmed with sensation and stimuli. You’d have many more questions than answers, and you’d be fixated on trying to figure out the logistics and probabilities of such an occasion. 


In other words, you’re approaching this herd of zebras with a sense of wonder and openness. On the other hand, looking outside and seeing an errant bird or squirrel certainly won’t evoke the same sense of interest or curiosity.


Now let’s take another example of learning how to play a new instrument. What questions would you ask? Where would you even start? You wouldn’t know what is and isn’t important, so everything would seem significant at first. You’d probably be curious as to the limits of the instrument—first in how to not break it, and then in its overall capabilities. You’d be filled with wonder and also caution for fear of making an error or breaking it. Again, you’d have so many questions, and the answers you receive wouldn’t begin to scratch the surface. You won’t forget the immediate impression the instrument makes on you for a very long time.


Those are the underpinnings of the beginner mindset. When you reprogram your mind to a blank slate and act as if you truly have no knowledge about something, you’ll engage in extensive, curious questioning, and knowledge will come far easier than in acting like you already have the answers. 


It should be emphasized that the polymath beginner’s mindset empowers the ability to ask 
dumb
 
questions
. So-called experts rely on assumptions and their own experiences, often without further investigation. When you feel comfortable asking 
dumb questions
, nothing is left up to assumptions and chance, and everything is out in the open and clarified. Experts and polymaths can sometimes have blind spots because of patterns they’re familiar with from other fields, but those may not always apply in novel situations. 


You can approach both new 
and
 familiar situations with this same principle. Next time you’re driving a car, try noticing the things you would automatically do otherwise and say them out loud to yourself. Along with that, focus on what you sense when you’re behind the wheel but have long since stopped paying attention to: the ridges in the steering wheel, the glow of the dashboard odometer, or the sound of the air-conditioner. Even these crushingly insignificant details could unlock and reveal some new element or impression that you’ve never experienced before. 


Overall, the beginner’s mindset requires slowing down, setting aside preconceived notions, and paying attention to what you’ve ignored for a long time.


Belief


Belief may seem simplistic, but it is not something that everyone possesses. 


Polymaths, whether through sheer belief or ignorance of the obstacles in their way, believe that with time, effort, and energy, they will eventually reach their solution or goal. Often this journey will involve gaining depth of knowledge and becoming the proverbial pi-shape. And with learning, improving, or achieving any goal, whether you believe you can or cannot, you will end up being correct.


To illustrate, we turn to British runner Sir Roger Bannister. The name Roger Bannister may not be familiar to you unless you’re a track and field fan or a historian of athletics.


In 1954, Roger Bannister was the first man to break the four-minute barrier for the mile, a longstanding threshold that athletes had flirted with constantly but had never crossed. 


One complete mile is four laps around a standard track. This means to break the four-minute threshold, a runner would need a pace of, at most, sixty seconds per lap—something that was thought to be impossible. The whole idea that a human being could run a mile in under four minutes was considered a fantasy, and even track experts predicted that humans would never achieve it. You have to remember that this was decades ago, when modern competitive athletics were still in their nascent stage—nothing close to the training, nutrition, or attention we give them today. These athletes were competing using methods that are absolutely prehistoric in comparison to modern techniques.


The world record for the mile was stalled around 4:02 and 4:01 for over a decade, so there seemed to be some truth to the belief that humans had finally reached their physical potential. It had been lowered steadily up to that point, starting from the first modern Olympics in 1896, when the gold medalist of the 1,500 meters won in a time of 4:33, which is the rough equivalent of a 4:46 mile. 


We had come so far, there had to be a limit, and we seemed to have hit it. Of course, similar notions of limits of human capabilities have existed in more modern times, such as the ten-second barrier for the 100-meter dash. For comparison’s sake, the world record for the mile as of 2020 is 3:43.13, held by Hicham El Guerrouj of Morocco. 


At the 1952 Helsinki Summer Olympics, Bannister finished in fourth place in the 1,500-meter run (the 
metric
 mile), just short of receiving a medal. Motivated by his disappointment and shame, he set his sights on running a sub-four-minute mile, which he felt would exonerate him. Bannister, unlike all other runners and experts at the time, believed that it was possible, so he trained with that in mind. It was a matter of 
when
, not 
if
, for him. Just making the assumption that something is a certainty, and even planning for what happens when you surpass it, can force you to behave in a drastically different manner than you otherwise would.


All the while a doctor-in-training, Bannister began in earnest to attempt breaking the threshold in 1954. He accomplished the feat on May 6
 
by 0.6 seconds in a time of 3:59.4. People were in disbelief, and he was revered as superhuman. For his efforts, he was knighted in 1975 and enjoyed a long life representing British athletic interests both domestically and internationally. Again, he accomplished this all while he was a practicing doctor and neurologist. 


Here’s where belief truly comes into the story of Sir Roger Bannister and the four-minute mile. Within two months of his breaking the four-minute mark, an Australian runner named John Landy broke both the four-minute mark 
and
 Bannister’s world record. The following year, three other runners also broke the four-minute mark. The next decade saw over a dozen people cross the four-minute mark that had stymied runners for years. 


Such is the power of belief. People have preconceptions about what is possible and what is out of their reach. But most of the time, these ideas simply limit them. They allow themselves to be disenfranchised by what they perceive to be possible or not, what they perceive they are capable of or not, and what they believe they can and can’t be. 


Without belief, you are putting an arbitrary limit on yourself. You sabotage yourself and may never even get started.


In the months following Bannister’s achievement, nothing about those other four runners changed physically. They didn’t magically grow winged feet or use performance-enhancing drugs as today’s athletes might. They didn’t alter their training habits or regimens. All that conceivably could have changed was their mindset of belief: they were certain the four-minute threshold could be beaten, and they were going to do it! That was the only element that shifted.


Roger Bannister redefined what was possible and instilled others with belief. If Bannister had lacked belief that his goal was achievable, he would have been happy with a time of 4:01 and then lived with regret for the rest of his life when someone else like John Landy came along and was first to break the tape in under four minutes. 


Polymaths believe they can become experts, they believe they can excel, and they believe that what they wish to achieve is within reach—in fact, it is just 
out of reach
, which keeps them powerfully motivated and striving for more. They believe that obstacles can be overcome, and that they can persevere no matter how tough those barriers are. They believe that failure and struggle are pitstops along the way. 


This brings us to our last element of the polymathic mind: perseverance.  


Relentless


Ultimately, in order to become true polymaths, we will have to push beyond what we like, enjoy, and feel comfortable with. That’s the nature of achieving larger goals. At the core, we still need to engage in something we find at least slightly annoying or uncomfortable. 


In other words, there are no shortcuts, no easy life hacks, no quick tricks. Success in the bigger picture belongs to those who have mastered the ability to tolerate a degree of distress and uncertainty and who can thrive in situations of sacrifice in service of something bigger than their immediate pleasure in the moment. 


The road to polymathy = being uncomfortable. 


We all want to grow and achieve, but the state of growth is inherently an uncomfortable one. Evolving feels uncertain and risky at times, and it certainly requires us to give up immediate pleasures and old, easy habits. Growth and development is about expanding, risking, exploring. It cannot be done without leaving the security of the old behind. And sometimes, change requires pain, as the old dies and the new is still small and uncertain.


Self-discipline is not required for the easy parts of life. It takes no effort or special technique to enjoy what we already enjoy. But if we want to productively approach the rest of life, we need to develop the self-discipline to work with the things we don’t enjoy. Rather than thinking of pain, discomfort, and uncertainty as roadblocks in our way to pleasure and success, we understand that they’re simply a part of life, and if we manage them well, we can unlock even bigger pleasures.


There is a great paradox in learning to not just tolerate but embrace discomfort. Practicing being uncomfortable doesn’t sound like much fun, and it isn’t. But it is a skill that will reap far more rewards in the long term than merely chasing fleeting pleasures or shifting fancies in each moment. 


Simply, we practice self-discipline and familiarity with discomfort because we respect that life contains an inevitable amount of unpleasant feelings. We know that in gaining a new perspective on the things we don’t really want to do, we actually create new opportunities for fulfillment, meaning, and pleasure. Life becomes easier, and we become stronger, almost larger than the everyday trials and troubles the world can throw our way.


With self-discipline, our expectations become healthier and more in line with reality. Our work becomes more focused and purposeful and we are able to achieve more. Self-discipline is not a thing we simply decide we want or think is a good idea in theory. It’s a practice that we pitch up for again and again, every day and every moment, willing to work it out in the arena of our lived experience. In other words, self-discipline is a habit in a world where the easiest thing is to take the path of least resistance or fall prey to the “succeed without trying” traps all around us. 


It might seem logical at first to pursue pleasure—if it feels good, it must be good, right? But if there’s one thing we know with utmost certainty, it’s that things 
will
 change around us, we 
will
 have to endure suffering at one point or another, and we 
will
 be uncomfortable and forced to face things we wish we didn’t have to. If we have this knowledge, isn’t it better to be prepared rather than blindly pursue a dazzling goal with no thought to what you’ll do when that goal doesn’t go how you planned?


Learning how to tolerate distress, uncertainty, doubt, and risk while things are okay (i.e., before these things are forced on you) gives you the opportunity to practice and develop your discipline so you’re prepared for future discomfort. Yes, it means that walking barefoot makes you more “immune” to one day having to walk without shoes. But it also means you’re less attached to needing shoes, and you feel deep down that you are more than able to respond to and endure challenges. This is an attitude of empowerment. It’s looking at life’s challenges head-on and deciding to accept them and respond with dignity and grit. 


Practicing tolerance is a “vaccine” in that you inoculate yourself against future discomfort in general. Adversity will still bother you, but you’ll move through it with the quiet confidence that it won’t kill you. How can it, when you’ve endured it all before and only came out stronger?


You can turn your focus to maximizing pleasure and refusing to engage with pain; or you can acknowledge that life intends to serve you heaping doses of both, and if you can prepare with maturity and wisdom, you can stay calm and ride those waves, trusting that you’ve developed your ability to thrive.


So prepare while the going is still easy. Don’t wait for life to force you to learn the lessons you must. Take the initiative by developing self-discipline right now. The shift is only a small one, but it has great influence on how you approach yourself and life. The idea is straightforward: get more uncomfortable than you’d usually be. Give yourself the gift of the opportunity to grow stronger. 


Here is a brief passage from 
Meditations
 by the Roman emperor-philosopher Marcus Aurelius that illustrates what we lose by surrendering to discomfort and not taking steps toward what we want in life:


“At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: ‘I have to go to work—as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for—the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?’


‘But it’s nicer here…’


So you were born to feel ‘nice’? Instead of doing things and experiencing them? Don’t you see the plants, the birds, the ants and spiders and bees going about their individual tasks, putting the world in order, as best they can? And you’re not willing to do your job as a human being? Why aren’t you running to do what your nature demands?


‘—But we have to sleep sometime…’


Agreed. But nature set a limit on that—as it did on eating and drinking. And you’re over the limit. You’ve had more than enough of that. But not of working. There you’re still below your quota. You don’t love yourself enough. Or you’d love your nature too, and what it demands of you. People who love what they do wear themselves down doing it, they even forget to wash or eat.”


Polymaths are people who, as Marcus Aurelius says, “love what they do”—and they’re willing to put up with discomfort when, in the long run, doing so allows them to achieve their goals and lead a fulfilling life. 


Takeaways:




The set of knowledge that a polymath has may differ completely from another polymath, but at their cores, they are extremely similar. This is because of the drive, curiosity, and openness required to become pi or comb-shaped, as opposed to just T-shaped. For instance, do you think that someone like Leonardo da Vinci looked at a problem he was unfamiliar with and said, “Someone else will take care of that, I’m going to take a nap”? Probably not. 


The first mental trait of polymaths is extreme adaptability and openness. Whatever the obstacle, it can be navigated or circumvented. It can be solved. To achieve this, you must embody flexible and resourceful thinking, and not be bound by convention or personal habit. You must be open to new perspectives and the unfamiliar and novel. For instance, who was the first person to look at a cow’s udders and think that they should drink what comes out? 


Second, polymaths live experimentally. This isn’t to say that they are always conducting traditional scientific experiments; rather, they’re applying the scientific method by analyzing and investigating whatever they come across. They feel safe doing this and simply want to gain new information and sate their curiosity. It’s almost like they cannot stop themselves from doing it.


Third, polymaths embody the beginner mindset, which is actually far more useful than the expert mindset. When you’re a beginner, you have ten times more questions than answers. And that’s a good thing. It makes you listen and question and dig deeper. Experts all too often fall into the trap of assuming they know too much, which inevitably causes blind spots. The beginner mindset should be applied in combination with critical thinking, and together they create a worthy line of inquiry.


Fourth, polymaths have belief in themselves. Whether it is well-placed or delusional, they believe that they will reach their goal. Many people are their own worst enemies when it comes to learning. But this speaks to something even more fundamental: the belief of agency, or ability to act and achieve. This means that output equals input, within reasonable expectations. One cannot reach a goal if they don’t believe they are capable of it first. 


Finally, polymaths can be described as relentless. How else would you describe people with deep knowledge in multiple realms? Being relentless can be defined as overcoming obstacles and discomfort at all costs. And yet often, the only true cost is simply being uncomfortable. Polymaths have the utmost self-discipline because starting from ground zero, even if you are interested in a topic, is difficult, tiring, and can cause mass confusion. But that’s life. And being comfortable with this uncertainty is a skill that makes you relentless toward getting to point B.




 


 


 









Chapter 3. Novice to Expert in 10 Steps


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


You probably don’t need any more convincing as to the benefits of being a polymath. That should be self-evident at this point. Instead, it’s time to turn our attention to the “how” part of this book. 
How
 do you learn a skill that you’ve selected? 
How
 do you immerse yourself most optimally into a new realm of knowledge? 
How
 do you expand your horizons and take the first step into becoming a polymath?


First, we’ll explore the four basic steps toward exploring a new topic and preparing to master the knowledge and skills that will be most useful to us. These include: (1) The Broad Overview, (2) Narrowing the Scope, (3) Defining Success, and (4) Compiling Resources. Then, in a following five steps, we’ll use the focus and resources we’ve developed to create and carry out a curriculum which allows us to learn most effectively. Finally, we’ll go over a four-part notetaking system that ensures a much deeper understanding of a topic.


Step 1: The Broad Overview


The first important step is to delve into the basics of your topic of choice. We need some introductory knowledge about the subject we wish to enlighten ourselves on before we proceed to do so. The main purpose of this step is to determine the scope and complexity of our subject matter. Are there subtopics within this subject? What are the absolutely essential details we need to know or preparations we ought to make before attempting to master it? Is the thing we wanted to learn even the same as the subject we’ve chosen? What does this topic or skill truly entail?  


 


Establishing Where Your Interests Lie


 


Conducting an in-depth study of our subject is not necessary at this point; we simply need to familiarize ourselves with what we intend to learn. For example, let’s say that you want to learn how to code. Before embarking upon this task, you need to deduce what coding entails, what the different methods or languages of coding are, how can one learn more about different coding systems and the subtopics within them, etc. While carrying out this step, you will likely discover that your chosen subject, coding in this case, is far too broad and that your actual area of interest is a specific language (C++, Python, etc.). 


 


The next step involves narrowing down your subject matter, but this one is restricted to understanding enough about the topic to discuss it intelligibly and find out for yourself what the true scope is. 


 


Three Important Questions 


 


Now it's time to get into some specifics regarding how exactly to approach getting this big picture of your field of interest. To do so, you need to answer three questions. (1) What is it about? (2) How extensive is the subject? (3) What acts as an appropriate starting point in trying to learn it?


 


Regarding the first question, we must determine how we can commence learning about the topic we have chosen. Is the topic something basic that a layperson could grasp in a few hours, or is it too complex, like nuclear physics, for an untrained individual to pursue? How much literature has been devoted to this subject, and how much do you need to learn to understand the topic adequately?


 


We need to answer these queries before proceeding to the second question. That in turn leads to our third question of how can you narrow down your topic to achieve proficiency in it. Most of the time when we start out we choose vague, umbrella topics like coding, only to discover that our interest is restricted to a section of the broader subject. We need to ascertain which constitutive part it is that you seek to learn.


 


Our primary goal here is to figure out exactly what we know and don’t know about the topic we’ve chosen. This is indispensable for us to start reflecting on matters like scope, preferred subtopics, etc. This is what we will do in the next step as we determine what precisely we want to learn. 


 


If you’re struggling to narrow down your subject matter to the essentials relevant for you, there are several tips you can follow that might help. First, the internet is an invaluable database with various depositories on all subjects. From Wikipedia pages, to individually hosted blogs, or the various books available online, they all provide different perspectives framed in unique ways. You need not devote too much of your concentration while reading these—skimming through will suffice. All you need to do is answer the three questions laid out below so that you have a foundation for learning your chosen subject. You’re going for quantity as opposed to depth here.


 


Here is an example to further assist you in this endeavor. My topic is Renaissance art, and I’ll instantiate a cursory Google search to learn what this is. Remember, the goal is only to familiarize yourself with the basics. First, I’ll try to locate a good description of what Renaissance art is, the different types of Renaissance art, and so on. 


 


There is bound to be a Wikipedia page on Renaissance art, and that is always an appropriate place to start. These pages are generally full of details that comprehensively explain the subject. However, even if the page on your topic is short, it will at least give you a summary. In many cases, reading the Wikipedia page from start to end will be adequate to serve the purpose of introducing ourselves to any topic.  


 


In addition to Wikipedia, I’m also going to scan through the other links yielded by my Google search. This helps me observe how people of various orientations and demographics are discussing Renaissance art. If I’m unsatisfied by the information garnered from these links, I might search Amazon for some books related to the subject and try to gain some general information based on the results I get. Amazon and Google Books both offer “preview” features that allow readers to see part of the book without purchasing it.


 


In completing step 1, you’ll likely identify some aspects of your topic you’re not interested in, and others that are more useful to you. That brings us to the next step in this process.


Step 2: Narrow the Scope


Step 2 entails determining the scope of your chosen topic. First, we took a relatively vague topic and attempted to organize it according to what we actually desire to learn. After completing step 1, we’ve likely arrived at the specific subtopic we want to focus on. Now, step 2 will help us ascertain the scope of this narrow subtopic. In simpler terms, we started out with something big, cut it down to pieces and decided which piece we like best. 


Taking our previous example of coding again, we divided a broad subject into specific languages and agreed upon one or a few languages to learn. We would struggle to succeed at learning every single coding language in existence, but focusing on one or two offers us a much higher chance of success. 


Deconstructing the Topic 


As humans, we perform better at tasks by deconstructing them into their constituent parts and tackling each part individually. We need to employ the same strategy here. The subtopic we’ve selected, like the broader one we deduced it from, can often be far too expansive in and of itself. For example, if our topic was physics, and we broke it down into nuclear physics, atomic physics, classical physics, etc., these subtopics in themselves could take a lifetime to master. 


Our goal is to infer the appropriate scope for our topic such that it takes from a few weeks to a month to grasp. You can always take a big topic, say atomic physics, break it down into its prominent subfields and learn each in succession. But to be more successful, we need a realistic and reasonable understanding of how much atomic physics is essential to our learning. 


It is often the case that when people attempt to learn something new, scope is not one of their considerations at all. They don’t ponder the actual depth of their subject, or how they can conclude learning it in a timely manner. The result is that they never accomplish their objective. I’m going to help you achieve success by first, determining an appropriate scope that can be learned within a practical timeframe. This time period must also be carefully chosen to maximize your focus on the task. 


Combining Theory and Application


Now we will see how you can combine theory with application. Returning to our Renaissance art example, I arrived at three distinct subdivisions within Renaissance art. This might not coincide with the list of subtopics an expert in the subject might come up with, but my own research influenced me to narrow Renaissance art down into artists and movements in specific countries, and seeing how they converge later in time. 


To re-emphasize, you must follow your own method of breaking down subjects into small parts. You’re organizing the information for your own specific goals, not based on how others have done it. Perfection is entirely unnecessary. As you gain more expertise, you’ll learn how to better classify information through the techniques others have used for the same end.


The primary reason behind keeping the scope limited is to avoid being overwhelmed. Our task in this step is to simply define the essentials we need to learn to grasp our chosen topic. Initially, we started out with a broad subtopic, Renaissance art, and now we’ve determined which specific type of art we want to learn—Italian Renaissance art. 


Step 3: Define Success


One crucial lesson life has taught me is that if you don’t know where you’re going, you’re not likely to end up anywhere. If you want to be successful, you have to define what success is before being able to achieve it. This is why in step 3, we need to learn how to define success. For this step, we need to design an objective, measurable criteria for success so that we can know whether we’ve fulfilled it to a mathematical certainty. We’ll use this criteria to ascertain whether we have met our goal of mastering the topic we wanted to learn about. 


Defining and Measuring Success 


The best way to effectively complete this step is to consider why you intend to learn your chosen subject at all. Is there a particular task or function that you’d like to be able to perform through learning your chosen subject? For example, let’s assume you want to learn about digital photography. In that case, your goal might be something akin to “I’m going to learn how to take a professional portrait and use the settings on the camera in its manual modes while also utilizing lighting appropriately.” 


The goal of learning digital photography and the criteria of using manual modes along with manipulating lighting are both sound. To master digital photography completely, you would have to learn about all of its various subtopics, and depending on your motivation for studying digital photography, it might be very gratifying to achieve that outcome through your learning experience. The essential point to remember here is to have a rigidly defined goal whose fulfillment can be measured by the requisite criteria you determine. Ideally, your goal should be to learn something that is practically beneficial since using your new skill will reinforce your entire learning process, making it easier for you to retain the knowledge you’ve accrued. 


An Example


As before, we’ll now look at a specific example of how to define success. In my case, I endeavored to learn about Renaissance art. Then, I narrowed down its scope and arrived at a specific subtopic—Italian Renaissance art. Next, I will determine what it means to have learned Italian Renaissance art, or the criteria of success. For that purpose, I’ll use a one line fill-in-the-blank that acts as a template: I will have learned ___ when ___. 


In this case, I’ve decided that I will have sufficiently learned about Italian Renaissance art when I can walk through Uffizi Museum in Florence, Italy, and pass as a tour guide. Alternatively, when I can take an online class in Italian Renaissance art, skip all the classes, and still get an “A” on the final exam. Or as another option, when I can read the top five Wikipedia articles on Italian Renaissance art and not learn a single new thing. 


Now that I have some basic impressions of what my end goal and the path toward it appear to be, I can work backwards from that path to reach my goal. The purpose of step 3 is to define what these steps are, and in turn use them to determine what precisely we want to learn. 


Step 4: Compiling Resources


Allow me to describe the wrong way that most people attempt to learn a topic. I’ve been guilty of using it myself. This is to visit your nearest bookstore or search on Amazon to find one book on your chosen topic and read that book cover to cover. The reason why this is a less-than-ideal method is because one book inevitably fails to encapsulate the various perspectives on a given subject. 


To take an example from school, have you ever written a book report that only cited one source in its bibliography? Did that fare well with your instructor? It likely resulted in an F because a single source often espouses only one viewpoint. Yet, we still trust singular sources to learn about topics relevant to our professional lives. To help you avoid this mistake, step 4 discusses locating resources. 


Compiling Resources the Right Way


For this step, what we need to do is compile every resource we can find on our topic without filtering them. Given the plurality and different mediums used for sharing information, it is advisable to give your method of compilation some lengthy consideration to help you think out of the box. As one might imagine, books are likely to be the most efficient resources of them all. Try finding some appropriate books through Amazon, but consider other mediums like blogs, courses, etc. 


There are other ways to gather resources too. Perhaps you have a friend or acquaintance who is familiar with your chosen topic. You could solicit an expert’s advice regarding the area of your interest. You can listen to podcasts. You can rummage through magazine articles. These are but a few ideas that you can utilize to locate resources. The goal of this step is restricted to simply finding resources. Some minimal filtering is in order here, since you don’t want to gather resources that ultimately prove to be ineffectual. However, the priority is to maximize the number of good resources at your disposal. 


To elucidate my point, I’m going to begin my search for resources on Italian Renaissance art. My starting point will be Amazon, because books generally offer the appropriate information needed to learn a subject. We’ll analyze our results once we perform a routine search on Italian Renaissance art. In my experiment, I initially did discover a few books, but none seemed to be pertinent to creating Italian Renaissance art except for one that was out of print and ludicrously priced. 


After Amazon, Google is our next database for finding resources on Italian Renaissance art. Searching for the term yields a massive list of resources with several tutorials on the subject. After assessing the available options, I’ll create a folder for bookmarks on Italian Renaissance art and fill it with the links I consider relevant. I’m not arriving at my choices after reading or engaging with any of this content. They are based solely on what appears to be a helpful resource without any conscious filtration. 


In other words, I am simply looking for as many quality resources as I can find. Following my search on Google, I’ll peruse Facebook and Twitter to locate some individual historians or organizations that could be helpful at some point. I might seek them out to ask for their advice on how to approach learning a topic, or to use them as a resource if I struggle during my attempts to study the subject. 


Step 5: Create a Curriculum


Over the last four steps, you selected a broad topic, narrowed it down to a reasonable scope, and defined the criteria that needs to be met for you to have mastered your chosen topic. You’ve even compiled some resources to help you in that endeavor. Step 5 will teach you how to create a learning plan for your subject. This is similar to creating an outline on what you want to learn. To complete this step, you need to take the subtopic(s) you’ve chosen and break them down into even smaller parts. 


The Role of Modules in a Learning Plan


For the sake of convenience and clarity of reference, we’ll call these subsections “modules.”  Each module is either a particular subtopic within the narrow scope that you defined, or it could be framed in the form of a step. In your plan, you need to determine the different subtopics you need to cover within, to continue with our example, Italian Renaissance art, as well as the sequence in which you need to learn them. 


A great way to orient yourself for this step is to analyze the “Table of Contents” in the books, videos, or blogs that you chose earlier. This will teach you how others have segmented the topic you’ve chosen. You can borrow their structure and even see how everything begins to converge and overlap. As an exercise, observe if ten different authors have broken down your topic in the same way. If they have, you should follow the same structure in your learning plan. 


By the end of this step, you should have compiled a range of modules that then need to be appropriately sorted. These modules must be based on the essentials you need to learn about to get a grasp on your chosen topic. Based on the ten different authors, you can also get a sense of which perspectives on your topic are less frequently included. These are likely less popular, and thus you can perhaps pay less attention to them. 


Step 6: Filter, Filter, Filter


There are usually a multiplicity of resources available on any given topic, but we simply don’t have the time to peruse them all. Attempts to read every book, blog post, or article on a single topic are bound to result in failure. This brings us to step 6, which is learning how to filter our resources. In this step, our primary goal is to prune our collection of resources to preserve only the best and avoid being overwhelmed by all the materials we’ve collected. 


Because we didn't filter our resources at all in step 4, there’s no chance that a good source slipped by us, thus maximizing our potential to accrue the best learning guides. Knowing what we want to learn, along with the learning plan we created, will be crucial to how we filter our resources. Doing so will also help you financially, since you won’t need to purchase ten different books from Amazon to learn about a single topic. Instead, it’s more beneficial to choose one or two of the best books. 


You can make your choices either based on whether particular books correspond to the modules you designed in your learning plan, or even just by looking for specific chapters in these books that fulfill that function. The most important part of this step is to carefully and efficiently scan through your resources to select the best ones among them. Ideally, the less resources you have, the better. 


Choosing the Best Resources 


Let’s switch gears from Italian Renaissance art.


Assume I want to learn philosophy and have aggregated a list of resources to assist in that endeavor. The philosophy books I discovered on Amazon weren’t related to my main purpose for learning the subject. This shouldn’t be an issue, however, since most of my resources were in the form of blog posts and articles on the Web. I also discovered several philosophy courses and tutorials, and now I’m going to analyze them to determine which ones are the best.


I need not go through every single resource that I collected; I can make my choices based on what appears to be the most suitable resource. Remember, our goal here is to both organize these resources effectively to discover the best ones, as well as reduce the cost of purchasing too many. The lack of books simplifies our task to a great degree. While we do have the tutorials and courses to fall back on, I’ll need to skim through Google to discover some more resources as I’m utilizing the ones I already have. 


One of the philosophical elements I wanted to learn was constructing arguments. If I perform a cursory search for resources on constructing logically valid arguments, I’ll discover some relevant articles on this subject. Though we’re not supposed to add new resources at this point, it’s acceptable to slightly bend the rules in this regard. You will inevitably discover new resources as you learn. The goal here is to have a core set of resources. I’m fairly certain that among the resources that I’ll preserve are the long list of tutorials I discovered on argumentation and philosophy. I’ll also keep some of the articles I read through earlier. 


My intuition compels me to believe that between the tutorials and articles I’ve aggregated, I have enough resources to learn philosophical argumentation thoroughly. However, if your set of resources includes books, you’ll need to apply some additional effort to determine which ones are the best for you. I’ll also consider contacting some friends who majored in philosophy in college, or tracking down some contemporary philosophers on Twitter. Their advice will act as a great resource in and of itself.   


Another crucial point to remember about this step is that even if you’ve taken a wide set of resources and narrowed them down to the essentials, say to just a few books, it doesn’t follow that you need to read all of them cover to cover. It is perfectly acceptable to simply read a few chapters from these books to gain the information most relevant for you. The entire purpose of selecting these particular resources is for you to learn a specific topic that you chose earlier, not to take in all the information you’ve gathered. 


Going through every resource in its entirety is not necessarily going to help you any more than selective learning. In fact, the former will slow you down considerably. Time is an important consideration throughout this process, and we want to stick to the information our resources provide that’s explicitly related to the content of our modules. 


Step 7: Dive In


In the following set of steps, from 7 through to step 10, we need to apply each step to every individual module in our learning plan. Once you’ve understood these steps, apply them to every successive module until you’ve completed your learning plan.


Step 7 entails learning enough about your topic or module to then grasp it more extensively. In layman’s terms, this means that regardless of what your module is, you need to find some basic information before attempting to learn it in further depth. 


Let’s assume you want to learn argumentation in philosophy. In this case, you’ll want to know what a premise and conclusion are along with the structure of syllogisms. These are the basic building blocks of an argument. Here, it is crucial not to get too specific, since we only need rudimentary information to get started. The next step grants us more freedom in how we approach learning, since we’ll attempt to learn things on our own there.


Thus, the purpose of this step is simply to gain a basic familiarity with a particular module so that you can explore it independently in the next step. Spend a minimal amount of time here. The bare minimum needed to start learning about a module will suffice. 


Demonstrating Step 7


To demonstrate this step, I’ll take the example of my first module in the learning plan I created for philosophy, which was to learn how to construct logically valid arguments. My primary concern here is to cover the basic components of a sound argument. I simply need enough information to understand what a valid argument consists of, and the different ways in which a sound argument can be structured. Later, I can then explore these different ways and components to determine my favorite methods of arguing. 


To begin with, I’ll simply search for philosophical argumentation again. This will inevitably lead me to the tutorials I discovered earlier, some of which I’ll go through. Within the various tutorials, I’ll try to observe the different ways in which these guides construct a valid argument and why they choose a particular method. 


One common subheading is “Where Do I Start”?, which presumably prescribes the best way to start learning about argumentation—our goal in this step. Most tutorials outline some basic concepts that anyone can grasp to learn how to argue better. The resources we’re consulting at this stage are all completely free of cost, a factor that doesn’t affect their quality as learning guides. 


As mentioned, they list some basic concepts we can familiarize ourselves with to understand what argumentation is about. As I listen to them, I’ll make a note of the concepts that seem to be the most relevant to my module.


I’ll also scan through some of the other resources I aggregated to observe the ways they recommend starting the process of learning argumentation. Next, I’ll contact some friends or acquaintances who are more familiar with this topic. I’ll ask them: What methods did they learn? How best can I understand argumentation in the simplest way? 


My goal here is to only understand the basics of argumentation so that I’m prepared for the next step. At this point, I’m not learning how to actually construct a valid argument. I simply want to know what comprises a sound argument so that I can explore various methods in the next step. 


Step 8: Exploration


As promised earlier, this step entails independent exploration. In fact, step 8 is affectionately called “play around.” The primary goal here is to simply explore based on your instincts without attempting to achieve any particular purpose. This experimentation is obviously with respect to the particular module you’re focusing on. 


If your modules focus on some technology-oriented topic, then this step will perhaps be easier to complete since you simply have to play around with different software. If it involves the use of software or programs, your main objective is to familiarize yourself with these different tools to understand the ways in which they function.


If your topic is something less tangible and more theoretical, for example history or philosophy, this is the point where you need to ponder what exactly you want to learn about and then form some hypotheses about how those concepts or processes manifest themselves, and the best way you can start learning them. 


Why Play Around?


The crucial goal of this step is to stimulate our mind to start asking the right questions about our modules. These questions will be the most important outcome of this step. In the next step, when we actually proceed to learn about the content of our module in concrete ways, we’ll attempt to answer these questions. 


Your mind is more adept at remembering information in the form of questions and answers rather than when it is simply presented with a wall of text or data. This is why our focus in the previous step was restricted to gathering the most basic information on our modules, because we don’t want to start learning about a topic without having framed some suitably related questions. 


That also makes this step critical to the larger process. Having said that, the point is still to just “play around.” There isn’t a particular goal you need to remember while framing these questions. The idea is to simply explore till your mind develops some questions organically about the module you’re focusing on. 


Experimenting with Argumentation


Now, at this point, I need to play around with some of the basic concepts of philosophical argumentation that I learned in the previous step. These concepts are restricted to those I deemed essential based on how commonly they were used in my resources. 


As outlined earlier, this means that I need to form some viable hypotheses about how to construct a valid argument based on the basic knowledge I’ve accrued. Ideally, by the time I’ve sufficiently pondered this topic, I’ll have some questions that will be answered in the articles and tutorials I aggregated. 


From the previous step, I learned what a premise and a conclusion are—two of the components of a valid argument. Now my goal is to grasp how to combine these elements to form a sound argument. Intuitively, this does not seem very difficult. I have a set of premises, or assumptions, about a particular topic, and I use them to draw some conclusion that the premises point toward. 


Three Ways to Explore A Module


For example, assume that my premises are that the sky is cloudy today and that there is a forecast of rain today. My conclusion, based on the fact that cloudiness implies the probability of rain and the prediction of rain by a forecasting network, must be that it will rain today. Though this seems to make intuitive sense, I cannot be sure that the structure of this argument is actually valid. 


However, after playing around with the concepts of premise and conclusion, I can come up with different types of arguments. Following this, one question could be why one type of argument is valid and another isn’t, something an article or tutorial on this topic should be able to answer.


Another way to play around with these concepts would be to try and derive some premises from a given conclusion. Taking the same example, if I assume it will rain today, what premises or information do I need for that conclusion to be true? Some examples are a prediction of rain, cloudiness, considering the time of year, etc. While this also seems intuitively true, it is structurally quite different from the previous argument. Which one is valid, if not both? 


As I have demonstrated, I simply explored the different ways I can use the concepts of premise and conclusion to form a valid argument. Another possible way to do this is to form a conclusion using some premises, and then use that conclusion as a premise to derive a second conclusion. 


So if I’ve derived that it's going to rain today from some premises, I can use that conclusion to create another, namely that I might have to cancel my plans today. Unbeknownst to me, all three of these ways of arguing are actually valid. In the next step, when I actually learn the valid ways of constructing an argument, I’ll understand them more easily because I came up with some on my own.  


This playing around stage will also lead me to form some questions, such as which way of arguing is valid, how best to arrange premises and conclusions, etc. It cannot be emphasized enough that these questions need to arise organically from a process of experimentation and playing around. This is why you only need the basics to explore, and the questions will follow swiftly thereafter. 


Step 9: Clarification


So far, you’ve attained some basic information on the module in focus. You’ve also engaged in some independent experimentation. This step will thus entail some concrete learning. While before we learned enough to simply get started, we’ll now gain enough information about our module to utilize it practically. This step also entails answering the questions you came up with in the previous step. If you were exploring or playing around with technological tools or software, you likely have several questions since you weren’t afforded any guidance whatsoever.   


In this step, you’ll attempt to answer at least some of these questions if not all of them. For this, you need to revisit the various resources you aggregated earlier and use them to first, answer all the questions you came up with and second, to acquire as much knowledge as you can. Continue this process until you believe you’ve learned enough about this specific module.


Balancing Theory and Practice


It is advisable here to go back and forth between learning new things and applying them practically to reinforce your newfound knowledge. Through my experiences, I’ve discovered that whenever I attempt to learn something new, especially when it’s related to technology, I’m most productive when I split my time between learning and practical application. Though this depends heavily on what you’re learning about, it might help to discover some ways you can implement your knowledge so that you can practice what you’re learning. This will help you develop skills naturally and aid you in learning faster.  


Answering Your Questions


In this section, I’ll demonstrate how to implement this step in the example of constructing logically valid arguments under the topic of philosophy. First, I need to revisit all the resources I gathered. You will recall that in the previous step, I simply took two basic concepts—premise and conclusion—and played around with the various ways I could orient them to come up with an argument without knowing whether it is actually valid. Now, after revisiting my resources, I’ve tried to understand which methods of argumentation are in fact sound, and the merits or demerits of using one method over another.


This led me to return to my first experiment, wherein I took some premises and formed a conclusion out of them. This method of arguing is called deductive reasoning and is the most reliable form of argumentation. Hence, I went back to my resources and enhanced my knowledge on this topic to the best of my abilities along with the correct way to form a deductive argument. 


It will be helpful to remember that my primary goal here is to learn how to construct valid arguments mentally and efficiently for everyday conversation. If I can’t use deductive argumentation intuitively, the reason for learning it ceases to exist.


As you observed, I came up with deductive argumentation on my own, but it turned out to be a legitimately valid method of arguing. This process will often help you learn things yourself simply through experimentation or trial-and-error. 


In this step, I endeavored to learn about deductive reasoning and conducted a few Google searches to that end. I consequently studied the different ways to orient premise and conclusion within the module of deductive reasoning. Through this, I can now form logical conclusions from any given data set. For instance, if I am told that someone is honest and keeps their promises, it follows that the person is likely trustworthy. 


What I’ve done is essentially explored all the different methods of argumentation, and then learned as much as I could about deductive reasoning to understand how to construct logically valid arguments. Obviously, I haven’t mastered deductive reasoning yet. I haven’t constructed any complex arguments, but I can now proceed toward learning since I’ve successfully grasped the basics. 


As I’ve mentioned earlier, this process will vary considerably depending on the nature of your module and topic. However, the crucial point to remember is trying to discover some practical applications for your knowledge and gaining some practice to reinforce everything you have learned until you believe you truly understand your module. 


Step 10: Teach


We’ve arrived at the final step of this process, and it is the most important one. Based on my experience, this step is most likely to be ignored. If you’re reading this step, I implore you to continue doing so because it will assuredly prove to be invaluable to your learning. The importance of this step cannot be emphasized enough. It entails teaching others. In other words, the primary goal of this step is to take stock of all the knowledge we’ve acquired and teach it to someone else.


This can take several diverse forms. Teaching doesn’t necessarily imply that you need to compile a series of videos or write blog posts. This step can be as simple as having a conversation with someone and describing what you have learned. You can have this exchange with your spouse, a friend, or an acquaintance. The crucial point is that you need to collect all the information you’ve gathered and attempt to articulate it in simpler words that can be grasped by someone wholly unfamiliar with the topic. 


This step will force your mind to organize your knowledge in a way that can be utilized more practically. The importance of this step lies in the fact that when you try to reorganize and pass on all the information you have, you’ll inevitably discover gaps in your understanding that will compel you to revise your resources to plug them. It will also ingrain your knowledge on a deeper level, due to the massive difference between simply regurgitating acquired knowledge and understanding it enough to be able to teach someone else. 


Methods of Teaching


I have a few suggestions here. My first suggestion is to compile a YouTube video on your larger topic. Alternatively, you could create a presentation or blog post. If neither of these seem agreeable, you can also simply write down the information you’ve acquired, either in the form of a book chapter or something else. 


Or, as I have relayed earlier, you can simply engage in conversation with someone. Regardless of the method you employ, the critical part is to follow this step since it will reinforce everything you’ve learned so far. It will force your mind to adopt fresh perspectives toward your subject matter and articulate it in ways that help you remember and use it more efficiently. Before you attempt to teach a particular topic, you likely only have some superficial understanding of it. However, once you’ve taught something to another person, your understanding of that topic deepens immeasurably.


Conclusion


This brings us to the conclusion of our last step. The next step is to repeat steps 7-10 for every single module in your learning plan until you’ve completed every single one. To save the time spent repeatedly referencing these steps, here is a simple trick to remember them. First, we accrue basic information to get started on a module, experiment and explore the ideas we have, then proceed to some concrete learning before teaching our newly acquired knowledge to someone else. A mnemonic for this is LPLT—learn, play, learn, teach. Simply repeat this mantra for every single module in your learning outline. 


Before proceeding to teach, you can also repeat the cycle of learn, play, learn several times. This might be tempting for some modules that are more extensive and contain interesting tangents worth pursuing. It is perfectly acceptable to learn for slightly longer before moving on. Once you believe you’ve learned enough, use that information to explore independently, and then add to your knowledge for suitable practical applications and to answer any questions you might’ve pondered.  


The distinctive feature of this process of learning is that you’re utilizing your own sense of curiosity as a mechanism to motivate your learning. This explains why we first learn sufficiently just to get started—doing so arouses our curiosity and encourages us to go further. It also explains why we experiment and come up with our own questions. Lastly, it explains why we return to those questions to be able to answer them. We’re exploiting our own curiosity to learn. 


It is imperative that you remember the final step as well, which is to teach. Teaching is crucial if you truly desire a deeper grasp of your subject matter, and if you really want to challenge your understanding to strengthen it further. 


The Power of Notes


This method combines the best of what I’ve found in a system that I believe is the most thorough and helpful. Notes are going to be central to every single step because it’s essentially going to become your second brain that you refer to, organize information with, and review.


I recommend four steps to take notes that lead to a deep understanding of your subject of study. My method does require more work than normal notetaking, but that’s part of what makes it more effective. (Sorry, there were never going to be any shortcuts in this book, just smarter approaches.)


Instead of allowing notetaking to be a brief, mostly passive exercise, my strategy forces you to highlight the key points in your subject, and compels you to extract the salient information for yourself, in your own words. It enables you to process and elaborate upon the information you’re studying in a reliable, systematic way, which makes learning and retaining information infinitely easier.


The four steps are: (1) normal notetaking with as much detail as you can, (2) summarizing the information in your own words, clarifying the significance and noting questions, (3) connecting this particular piece of information to the lesson at large, and then (4) answering remaining questions and then summarizing each distinct page or section again.


The first step of my method is to take notes as you ordinarily would. Copy down the information you need to know as you encounter the material, 
but leave two blank lines beneath each note you take
. These lines give you space to process and analyze the information in the second and third steps. For maximum retention, it’s best to engage in these later steps immediately after you finish your class, video, or reading. So the first step is to simply carry on as you normally would in as much detail as you can. 


For example, if you were researching the diet of King Henry VIII, you might write (the following is all fabricated information for the purpose of illustration), "King Henry and his court consumed up to twenty different types of meat in one sitting. Serving less was considered an insult to nobles of the time. Vegetables and wine were also served, but the focus was on the meat as it was considered a sign of wealth and status.”


Step two: Once you’ve taken your initial notes, you move on to what really differentiates my method from other forms of notetaking. It starts on the second line for each note, where you left space, and you summarize what you wrote in step one in a complete sentence. When you do this, it’s important not to just repeat the initial note, even if you took your notes in complete sentences. Using your own words, converting the note to language that helps you understand the meaning is essential. Ideally, you are able to extract a deeper level of understanding. Really seek to make connections and find relationships within the information.


This isn’t applicable to every piece of information, but do it anyway. Why? While it can seem redundant, the repetition itself also helps to cement the knowledge in your mind. The emphasis on repeating the knowledge in your own words, and in a fully coherent, complete sentence, requires you to process the information and chew on its meaning, thus entrenching it more deeply in your mind.


When rephrasing the information from our example above, you might write, “Henry VIII’s diet was mainly meat. In those years, rich and noble people expected a lot of different meats, and felt insulted when offered too little variety. Wine and vegetables didn’t matter much.” 


On the second line of your notes, you can also list any questions you have about the notes you took in step one. These are points of clarification, or gaps in your knowledge, that you feel you would need to form a complete picture. Before you move on to the next step of my method, mull over the directions this information might lead, and what that all means. Whether you can or cannot answer it, considering the subject deeply enough to form a question will help you remember the facts.


Questions you might have about Henry VIII’s diet are, “What were the health effects with such a protein-rich diet?” or “How many people were involved in getting that much meat on a daily basis, and how did they do it?” or “What did peasants eat by contrast?” or “What did other nobles from other cultures or countries consider high status?”


Use a highlighter or a different-colored pen or pencil to make this section stand out, as this is the actual information and message you’ve extracted from the brain dump of the first step. It’s actually unlikely that you’ll ever refer back to what you produced in the first step.


Step three: In the third line, the final blank line you left for yourself, state any connections you can find between the subject of that note and the broader topic you’re studying. If you notice that the content of your note has some sort of cause-and-effect relationship with the broader topic, write that here. 


If this new information helps you understand the motivating factors or connects events or allows you to guess at people’s perspective/perceptions, write those here too. Anything you can do to form lateral connections to related information should be written down here so that the links—and thus the original information—can become consistent residents of your memory banks.


The rule of thumb is to simply ask how the information fits in and why it matters. Following our example, suppose the greater lesson is about Henry VIII’s life and legacy. Why is information about his diet and eating habits important? 


So here you might note that the royal’s diet contrasted dramatically with peasant diets, which were largely composed of fruits, vegetables, and hearty grains they farmed themselves. Perhaps this led to Henry’s subjects hating and eventually executing him. You might also note that such ample, stately meals likely contributed to Henry VIII’s well-known obesity. Finally, you might also see that this type of opulence was a sign of how absurdly rich the nobility was at the time. Or perhaps it was just an interesting anecdote to illustrate his opulence.


Find how the information contributes to an overall narrative or story. See it as a living and breathing factor instead of a dry factoid.


Step four: The final step of my method is to take a break every page (or applicable chunk) to write a summary of the information from your second and third steps. Also make sure to try to address the questions you wrote in the second step if they are still applicable. 


The final step creates a fourth opportunity for you to revisit, synthesize, and transform the information you’re learning on paper. If most people review information once, then you’ve done it four times in four different ways. To say this is helpful would be an understatement. The mental work will go a long way toward making sure you truly remember and understand the facts you’re learning and the implications of that information. This doesn’t only help you comprehend the information, but will help you apply and manipulate that information if necessary.


To finish up your notes on Henry VIII’s diet, you write, “Henry VIII’s court expected to consume ten types of meat with each meal. This consumption of meat was unusual at the time, as most couldn’t afford much meat at all, and consumed only fruits, vegetables, and grain they could raise themselves. This may be why Henry VIII and people who ate as he did were obese. I wonder how they got so much meat, and what other health effects resulted from this diet? What effect did this type of spending have on his people’s perception of him?”


As you can see, my method pays notetaking the respect and attention it deserves. When we take notes, we are not just recording information, we are creating the mental blueprint for how we perceive and understand this information for all time. This is our chance at making an accurate and deeply comprehensive first impression, so we can’t spoil it with normal notes. The method leads to a much deeper, much better integrated knowledge set—and that’s exactly what makes information stick. 


Takeaways:




I’m fairly certain that you don’t need any more convincing to become a polymath. So instead of harping on the “whys,” we can get down to the “hows” of becoming a polymath. This will involve stretching your mind and starting from ground zero in at least one new discipline or realm of knowledge. It will be a tedious, tiring, and frustrating process. But it will be less of those things if you have a proper plan in place.


Thus, we come to a 10-step process on learning a new subject from scratch. Actually, the title of each step is fairly descriptive to the process itself:






Gain a broad overview.


Narrow the scope of your desired knowledge or skill.


Define what success means to you and work backwards to establish a plan of attack.


Compile the resources—focus on quantity here.


Create a curriculum and study plan based on all the resources you’ve collected.


Filter and curate the resources you’ve found based on what you want to achieve.


Dive in and immerse yourself in information.


After you’ve gained a basic understanding of everything, explore, play, and discover the bounds of your comprehension with questions.


Answer the questions you articulated in the previous step and make the connections that you were lacking.


Teach this skill or information to someone else to solidify your understanding, and also as a mirror to see what you still do not understand.






Something that is unspoken yet omnipresent throughout this entire process is notes. Notes, for all intents and purposes, function as your second brain. This is where you write your findings, make connections, review, and synthesize information. If properly organized and optimized, your notes can become the very structure of your new set of information or skills. But that’s a big if. Thus, we come to a special method of note-taking that yours truly put together. It’s not easy, but that’s kind of the point.


The four steps are: (1) normal notetaking with as much detail as you can, (2) summarizing the information in your own words, clarifying the significance and noting questions, (3) connecting this particular piece of information to the lesson at large, and then (4) answering remaining questions and then summarizing each distinct page or section again.




 









Chapter 4. Intentional Discovery


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


By now, it should be clear that what distinguishes polymaths and other intelligent people is not the skillset per se, but the attitude behind it. If you’re interested in developing your own skillset, it’s natural to ask, “What exactly should I learn?”


The answer to this question is obvious: it depends on your purposes.


You might decide that you want to pursue a more diverse inventory of skills to make yourself more competitive in the market, a better businessperson or entrepreneur, or a little of both. In merely asking the question, you’ve actually begun to shift perspective and open your mind to possibilities outside of narrowly defined job descriptions. 


Take inspiration from those who you admire. Look at the jobs or positions you want and imagine what skills and abilities would come in handy. Areas like public speaking, anything that encourages critical thinking, the development of time management or leadership skills, or the associated social skills that come with your profession are a logical place to start.


But perhaps, in the true spirit of being a renaissance man, you want to pursue polymathy for its own innate virtues, beyond its benefits in one specific workplace or another. You may want to learn more and become more well-rounded simply because your life itself is a project that holds the most interest and importance for you, and you’re inspired to be what you can in this life, given your strengths and limitations. 


But where to start? A great way to begin is by taking stock of your skills, aptitudes, personality traits, history and experiences. What do you have that nobody else does? In what ways are you your own unique self, in a way that nobody else can be? What opinions and ideas and interests and passions do you have that have followed you throughout life, no matter what? These things are like gold—they’re the foundations on which to build and cultivate other skills. 


Let’s say you are what people understand as a rather mathematically minded type of person. You excel at the “hard” sciences, you’re technologically proficient and have no problem understanding mechanical and engineering concepts or strategy games. These are wonderful skills to have but may result in a somewhat lopsided “profile.” You may, on the other hand, be relatively detached from your physical body, have poor emotional, social and/or spiritual development, be artistically illiterate and have the culinary palette of a two-year-old. The stereotype of a skinny, shy nerd didn’t come from nowhere!


Now, this is not to say that people with some skills are necessarily bad at “opposite” skills—in fact, it’s this very myth that is so elegantly shattered by the existence of polymaths, who prove that human beings can excel in all kinds of areas simultaneously. But, for the sake of our example, imagine that our mathematically minded person follows the old stereotype. To become more well-rounded, he can deliberately seek to pursue those endeavors that are most different from the ones he gravitates to naturally.


This requires the maturity to tolerate being a beginner, and the courage to get out of old comfort zones and maybe even risk changing as a person. Our example could take up a study in an entirely unrelated domain. Ballroom dancing, watercolor painting or reading the works of Jung could all offer vital counterbalance to his natural skills. 


In truth, of course, these skills are not really “opposites” at all—the gift of polymathy is realizing how profoundly these activities are connected, and it’s only our narrowmindedness that insists they belong in separate categories. The natural world doesn’t divide itself into academic disciplines. What a wonderful thing to realize that “hard” and “soft” sciences cannot be identified and separated out in the actual phenomenological world unfolding before us. 


This could be why many brilliant scientists are actually deeply enthralled with Zen Buddhism, dream work, psychedelics, or the great poets, or are even devoutly religious. Rather than their spiritual side clashing with their scientific pursuits, they 
enhance
 them. 


Similarly, a person who is naturally endowed with a more artistic skill set may find immense value in developing their logical, mathematical brain by taking up a science, learning chess or model building. It’s not that a person is improved by taking up this or that specific activity, but rather that the more activities they explore, the greater the chance of making creative connections between them. 


Again, the specific material doesn’t matter—it’s the richness, diversity and connectedness of that material that’s significant. Rather than thinking how much you can learn, can you reorient to seeing how well you can 
integrate
? All the great thinkers have, in their own way, been pursuing a grand “theory of everything” after their own design. When you combine elements that are seemingly unrelated, the space between them is the realm where creativity lives. There is nothing new under the sun, as it’s been said, but there is no limit to how you can combine what exists already!


Einstein and Combinatory Play


Surprisingly (or not), the most notable scientist of the 20th century was known for taking time out of his research to play the violin. In so doing, Einstein was engaging in a combination of the hard and the soft.


Reportedly, he was even very good at the instrument, as he was with the piano. But while sawing away on the violin during his breaks, Einstein actually arrived at some breakthroughs in his research and philosophical questionings. Allegedly one of these musical sessions was the spark for his most famous equation: 
E=mc
2
.


Einstein came up with the term 
combinatory play
 to describe the intangible process in which his favorite pastime led to ideas that revolutionized the whole of scientific thought. He explained his reasoning as best he could in 1945 in a letter to French mathematician Jacques S. Hadamard:


“My Dear Colleague:


In the following, I am trying to answer in brief your questions as well as I am able. I am not satisfied myself with those answers and I am willing to answer more questions if you believe this could be of any advantage for the very interesting and difficult work you have undertaken.


(A) The words or the language, as they are written or spoken, do not seem to play any role in my mechanism of thought. The psychical entities which seem to serve as elements in thought are certain signs and more or less clear images which can be “voluntarily” reproduced and combined. 


There is, of course, a certain connection between those elements and relevant logical concepts. It is also clear that the desire to arrive finally at logically connected concepts is the emotional basis of this rather vague play with the above-mentioned elements. But taken from a psychological viewpoint, this combinatory play seems to be the essential feature in productive thought—before there is any connection with logical construction in words or other kinds of signs which can be communicated to others. 


(B) The above-mentioned elements are, in my case, of visual and some of muscular type. Conventional words or other signs have to be sought for laboriously only in a secondary stage, when the mentioned associative play is sufficiently established and can be reproduced at will. 


(C) According to what has been said, the play with the mentioned elements is aimed to be analogous to certain logical connections one is searching for. 


(D) Visual and motor. In a stage when words intervene at all, they are, in my case, purely auditive, but they interfere only in a secondary stage, as already mentioned. 


(E) It seems to me that what you call full consciousness is a limit case which can never be fully accomplished. This seems to be connected with the fact called the narrowness of consciousness (Enge des Bewusstseins).”


Einstein seemed to believe that indulging in his creative tendencies was helpful for his logical and rational pursuits. That might have been the case, and it also might have been the case that to engage in a distraction was helpful for taking on different perspectives and viewing problems from different angles. Perhaps it’s related to the Medici effect from an earlier chapter, in which the melding of different disciplines will inevitably lead to new discoveries.


Indeed, combinatory play is not simply the notion that 
play
 takes your mind to a different world to regroup. It recognizes, as Einstein did, that taking pieces of knowledge and insight from different disciplines and combining them in new contexts is how most creativity truly happens. So as mentioned, somehow Einstein saw something in playing the violin that helped him think about physics in an entirely new way. 


The lesson here is to engage in your own pursuits and not feel constrained by having to stay in similar or adjacent disciplines, thinking that only they will aid you. There are 
always
 parallels between different disciplines, so find them. More of the same probably will not help; a dash of something different just might.


Stacking


Thanks to online resources and the interconnectedness of our modern world, learning and becoming polymathic to some degree is easier than ever before. 


Because of that, even if you master a certain skill, there’s a very good chance someone else has also mastered it. The sword cuts both ways because competition has only increased over the years. If someone were to assess your skills in a particular area with someone else possessing the same skills, they might not see why they should pick 
you
 to work with over the other person (and vice versa). 


Let’s consider this a chapter on 
what
 you should focus your efforts on.


It’s 
not
 smart to establish your value or merit on the basis of just one skill. By definition, only 1 percent of everybody is in the top 1 percent of anything. (Yes, I double-checked the math.) The top 1 percent of players in the National Basketball Association is an extremely select fraction of everybody in the league and a 
very
 small fraction of the world’s population. It’s almost impossible to get into that 1 percent. 99 percent of the NBA comprises players who 
aren’t
 LeBron James or Stephen Curry and aren’t doing too badly for themselves. But they are still not the highest paid or most famous players. 


In other words, you aren’t going to be in the top 1 percent, so now what?


How do you differentiate yourself from someone with roughly equal amounts of skill and make yourself stand out? Instead of seeking to distinguish yourself based on a statistical improbability, one solution is the concept of 
skill stacking
, and believe it or not, it at least partially originated in the comics section of your daily newspaper.


Skill stacking was popularized by Scott Adams, creator of the workplace-themed 
Dilbert
, one of the most successful and quotable comic strips in publishing history. The idea behind skill stacking is that, while extreme proficiency in one skill is admirable, it’s unlikely; thus it’s much more effective to have high abilities in multiple areas which work well together. 


Instead of relying on being in the top 1 percent of a certain skill, shoot instead to be in the top 5–15 percent in three talents, or even four. It’s the difference between imagining you are Mozart, versus being a studio musician who can play four instruments in a pinch. Not everyone can be Mozart, but it’s far more likely to be able to play four instruments.


Adams uses himself as a prime example of skill stacking in a career. He realizes that he is not in the top 1 percent of any skill in particular. 
Dilbert
—a comic strip set in an office with amusing “truisms” about the business world—appears in the newspapers in sixty-five different countries. Adams reportedly has a net worth of $75 million, the lion’s share of it from 
Dilbert
, including syndication and merchandise. For a while, almost every office in America had a 
Dilbert
-ism on display at somebody’s desk just to prove they comprehended workplace irony. So despite Adams not being an extreme outlier in anything in particular, how did his level of success happen?


He’s not the most talented comic artist; his characters are largely stick figures with different hairstyles and noses. They may not be artistic per se, but they are pleasant to look at and it’s clear that he has more ability than he lets on. Let’s put him in the top 10 percent of artistic abilities. 


He’s not a high-level expert in business and making money. But he did go to business school at the University of California, Berkeley, so let’s give him a top 5 percent here. 


He’s not necessarily one of the funniest people alive, and has never attempted to be a comedian or anything similar. However, his comic strip is amusing and witty enough to be syndicated and has been running for years, so let’s give him another top 5 percent mark on this one. 


“When you add in my ordinary business skills,” Adams said, “my strong work ethic, my risk tolerance, and my reasonably good sense of humor, I’m fairly unique. And in this case, that uniqueness has commercial value.” If you don’t believe in Adams as an example, you don’t have to look much farther than a 2017 Boston Consulting Group study that found that companies with more diverse skill sets and backgrounds produced 19 percent more revenue overall. 


That’s the essence of skill stacking. You simply readjust your goals. Forget relying on being in the top 1 percent, and instead shoot for getting in the uppermost percentile (5-15 percent) of a few skills, preferably those that can be used to enhance each other. You leverage the good-to-high skills and traits that you have and combine them in a way to give yourself an advantage over everyone else. Adams blended his above-average business understanding, sense of humor, and artistic abilities, to make a financially viable character that was unique on the comic page. (And Dilbert doesn’t even appear to have 
eyes
.)


Success is usually considered to be the result of high proficiency in 
one
 skill, and in certain cases an opportunity cost or sacrifice is necessary. Most medical students have to pick one field to specialize in—you won’t find a lot of dentists who are also podiatrists. It’s the same with sports, where you try to become the top athlete in a specific field like basketball, football, golf, or track at the exclusion of all other sports. Except for extremely rare cases like Deion Sanders and Bo Jackson, you don’t find a lot of people who are superstars in two different sports. (Even Michael Jordan couldn’t quite hack professional baseball.)


But for almost all other pursuits, high proficiency in a number of skills is much more possible and thus desirable. Skill stacking encourages arranging and using your multiple skills in ways that make you 
absolutely unique
—that set you apart from the others. By combining your ordinary individual talent and learning additional “gap” skills, you become a singular person that nobody else can really duplicate. This makes you incredibly valuable in the job market and irreplaceable on a social and personal level. 


Skill stacking forces you to look at reality and what really makes an impact. For example, you might be in the top 5 percent in a certain skill—what will that garner you? You might get a couple of accolades, but otherwise, you won’t turn that many heads. At the top of every field resides everyone in the top 5 percent, so you won’t stand out by definition. You could try and push yourself into the top 1 percent, but if there was a real chance of that you probably wouldn’t be reading this book (unless you just can’t get enough of my exquisite prose).


This means you have to find more ways to be competitive than relying on developing a single skill. Getting into the top 1 percent of a certain skill is nearly unobtainable (though always worth trying). Being in the top 5 percent of one ability is great, but once you get into higher levels of a certain skilled population it’s not actually that remarkable, and you’ll be surrounded by similar people. 


Therefore, we come again to the conclusion that 
more
 distinctive is someone who’s in the top 10–15 percent of 
three or four
 different skills. Having a great specialized talent is one thing—but being very good in a broad spectrum of skills that nobody else quite has? 
Now
 you’ve got their attention. 


The sweet bonus is that getting into the top 10–15 percent in a few different areas isn’t nearly as hard as getting into the top 1 percent of just 
one
 area. The top 1 percent can take years or even decades of practice—that’s playing a solo at Carnegie Hall level of skill. However, getting into the top 10–15 percent doesn’t take 
too
 much more than achieving goals of learning, practicing, executing, and repeating. You can probably read a couple of books on the topic and instantly be better informed than 95 percent of the general population. If you were to read five books on one subject, it is highly doubtful you would learn anything new by the time you hit the fourth book, even.


Let’s take what’s for obvious reasons my favorite example: writing. There are many talented writers. The top 1 percent will get published no matter what; it’s inevitable because of the quality of their work.


Now let’s consider the top 5 percent—they are still flat-out 
amazing
 writers, but they’ll never become popular because they’re not quite as good as the top 1 percent, and they have no other ways to get discovered. 


But what if someone in that 5 percent can also code just a little HTML and knows their way around social media? Not only can this person write flowery phrases, but they can also build themselves a blog featuring their own work, crafting a brand that is personal and unique. 


Furthermore, with their knowledge about how to publicize something on social media, this person can actually create interest and a global market for their work. And then, 
viola
, they actually 
get read
. Add into this a certain amount of business savvy, and they will be able to replicate this process to nab more readers, produce more writing, and ultimately skyrocket their revenue from books.


So that writer might only be in the top 5 percent of all writers, but because they have specialized skills that they’ve learned in the service of publicizing their work, they’ve managed to get themselves published and in position to earn readers who become fans—and, theoretically, income. To be perfectly honest, there are probably writers out there who are only in the top 
25 percent
 of all writers who are making a good living because they can diversify and build a skill stack.


Stack Strategically


The best thing about a skill stack is that you probably already have one. You just haven’t thought about it yet, let alone been able to recognize or discuss it. 


The first step in defining your skill stack is making sure you have abilities that work as counterparts and complement each other toward a specific end goal. For example, it’s easy to see how writing, public speaking, and acting can create a valid triple threat. Being a competent chef, a smart businessperson, and a capable communicator can be all you need to open a successful restaurant.


Conversely, being a good public speaker, a decent guitarist, and a good chef might only make you a better-than-average waiter—and not bring you toward your desired end goal of owning a restaurant. And being able to type, tap-dance, and shell peanuts effectively—well, some doors may just not be open for you, except maybe circus administration. 


The skills you stack can’t be too random. They should be three or four skills in related or compatible fields. If you can master those interconnected skill sets, your value could skyrocket far greater than if you just stuck with what you’re “naturally” good at doing. 


To get to the core of your skill stack, do some relatively simple self-evaluation by asking yourself these questions.


What industry are you in or do you want to be in?
 Easy enough. What’s your current work situation and/or the work situation you dream about?


In that industry, in which areas of skill do people compete against each other?
 What does everybody in that field of interest absolutely have to do on a basic level? What will get them in the door? These are the skills that the business or endeavor is built on, the ones that the higher-ups will always judge their employees about on a daily basis. 


If you’re in the top 5 percent of those skills, it’s commendable. But there are still others like you and some who are theoretically 
better
 than you, so being in the top 5 percent is not quite enough. Therefore…


Given that everyone has those skills, what new skills can you acquire that will blow them out of the water?
 This is your “special sauce,” the one (or better yet, two or three) additional talents you possess that separate you from everyone else. Chances are, this ability is something you developed in another environment, not specifically for this job or task. And it’s the difference-maker that can tilt the scales in your favor. Take a look at the top performers in the field, or in related fields, to get a clue if you’re not sure what step to take here.


Let’s say you want to be a stockbroker. 


In what areas do stockbrokers distinguish themselves from others and compete with each other? Stockbrokers absolutely have to be good at communicating and calculating. That’s a given that should cover 100 percent of all stockbrokers, but let’s be more reasonable and say that 75 percent of them actually are. Obviously, that’s nowhere close to enough to swing hiring decisions your way.


So what new skills can you learn that would separate you from the others? Since the global economy is super-connected, a stockbroker could accentuate their portfolio (pun intended) by learning a foreign language of another economic superpower, like China or Germany. Some studies say 50 percent of all the world’s population is bilingual. That sounds a little high to me, but let’s say it’s true. You’ll distinguish yourself from at least half of the other stockbrokers by being able to speak a different language. And each new language you learn will chip away at that percentile even more. Let’s say one additional language puts you in the top 20 percent of all stockbrokers.


Furthermore, since biotech is one of the most watched categories on the stock market, a stockbroker with a deeper knowledge of medicine, the human body, and recuperation practice might be a keener analyst of new and prospective technologies. If you know a lot about medicine or have a background in first-aid administration or light medical assistance, you could have another advantage over the other bilingual stockbrokers.


You’re not a master of all these trades—but with some hard work and practice, it’s easy enough to get into the top 10–15 percent. And that’s enough to make you more flexible and marketable to someone else. In this age, versatility is more important than limited execution. You’ve exponentially multiplied your bankability as a stockbroker just by listening to some audio tapes of German or Chinese every week and reading a few articles a week on breaking news in biotech companies. Not a bad return on investment—and that’s just the thing: constructing and increasing your skill stack can be deceptively easy. 


Switching to something probably more fun and less stressful, let’s consider painting. Close to 100 percent of all painters (Jackson Pollock-esque, spilling-paint types excepted) have to know how to sketch a given subject. They 
all
 should need to know how to work with various mediums and paint types, even if they end up specializing in only one or two. For the sake of this example, let’s say only 90 percent of them can work in multiple mediums.


Some artists only paint portraits or still lifes that are conveniently positioned right in front of them as they paint. But someone who has a well-developed photographic (or at least highly dependable) memory can paint almost anything and anywhere they want, and they might be more prolific in the process. That’s a skill that can be honed over time and practice. Finally, someone with a background in mythology, theology, or philosophy might have a grasp on certain symbols that they can incorporate into their work to give it added meaning or tension.


A skilled draftsperson is easy to find among painters. But a skilled draftsperson who works in multiple mediums, has a high-functioning memory and an extremely well-rounded background in art theory, mythology, or philosophy? That’s not a common trifecta. And it’s easy to use them all in service to art.


Each time you add another skill to your stack, you are crafting a more and more selective Venn diagram.


Nobody knows your abilities better than you—but creating a synergy around your diverse skills is something that might have eluded you. Skill stacking can take advantage of what you already are and present it in a way that benefits the masses. And it’s also a great, constructive way to figure out what skills you need to learn to make you stand out.


Takeaways:




This chapter is all about exactly what might be worth your time to learn and become polymathic in. Yes, it’s true that our polymath role models all seemed to possess talents in both arts and sciences. That is to say that there was usually a mixture of soft and hard skills. Albert Einstein himself was a large proponent of what he called combinatory play, in which he would indulge in playing the violin when stuck on a particularly vexing problem to clear his mind and find different perspectives. Indeed, this tactic is something we can also channel when we think about what to spend our time on. 


Cartoonist Scott Adams coined the term 
skill stacking
, and it’s about developing the best combination of traits and skills for your particular purpose.


A skill stack is something you likely already possess. It’s based on the concept that you can’t rely on one skill or proficiency to stand out in whatever you are trying to accomplish. Only 1 percent of us can be in the top 1 percent of a skill, and that likely won’t be you. Thus, we should create a skill stack that is composed of three or four interrelated skills that you have reached the top 10–15 percent of. It’s a realistic goal and will set you apart from your competition. The more unique, varied, and synergistic your skill stack becomes, the more formidable you will be.  


A major key is to have the skills be related. This means you shouldn’t just focus on your strengths, which oddly enough can hold you back. Take a look at the top performers in your field to see what various skill stacks they possess. When you know what you want to increase your proficiency in, it’s as easy as reading a couple of books or a few articles, attending a few lectures, and gaining some basic exposure. This alone will make you better informed and prepared than 90 percent of the general population—this positions you as an expert! This is using the concept of polymathy in the best way for your specific life circumstances.




 


 


 









Chapter 5. Standing on the Shoulders of Giants


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


As the now popular maxim goes, we can see far if we stand on the shoulders of giants—even if our own efforts are small, when we add them to the collected understanding and knowledge gained by the great thinkers who have gone before us, we can advance further than even they did, and in a sense continue their journey. 


It’s important to thoroughly understand your own strengths, weaknesses, context and goals. If striving for polymathy in your own life is important to you, there’s no other way but to approach it with your own unique idiosyncrasies and curiosities. However, there are countless giants who have come before us. In looking at high achievers from history, we can find patterns, inspiration or encouragement. Take what resonates, and leave the rest.


Admittedly, you may see that the polymaths we’ll investigate in the pages below were mostly born into wealth and were well connected, if not literally nobles and aristocrats. Many of them lived so comfortably that they were able to devote themselves to learning instead of survival, and more than a handful were noted philanderers, substance abusers and gamblers. 


Nevertheless, there are some lessons we can learn from these figures, even though our lives are very different from theirs. We can make historical and cultural adjustments and learn from these giants how best to apply our own talents to arrive at the modern-day equivalent of a historical polymath. 


The Original Renaissance Man 


Leonardo da Vinci, born in 1452 in Tuscany, Italy, is arguably the most famous and accomplished polymath in the history of the world, as well as someone recognized for massive creativity. Science, math, the arts, politics, culture, history—you name it and he cultivated an interest in it and likely gained a level of proficiency. His list of accomplishments is staggering, and the variety of fields he mastered is beyond belief.


Anatomy.
 Da Vinci reshaped what human beings knew about themselves. He was the first person to create detailed views of the internal organs of the human body. He made casts of the brain and ventricles from a deceased ox, paving the way for such models of human organs. He was the first to describe the S-shaped structure of the human spine. He completed numerous dissections of both human and animal bodies, meticulously documenting and drawing everything he saw. Imagine how valuable those diagrams were, coming from someone so artistically skilled. Even today, da Vinci’s many illustrations of human anatomy are still necessary studies.


Innovation and invention.
 Da Vinci’s foresight was incredible. He came up with drafts of several inventions that were finally brought to life almost five hundred years after he lived—the helicopter, the parachute, the military tank, the robot, and scuba gear all sprang from ideas first put forth by da Vinci. And that’s just a partial list. He had a particular interest in military and defense inventions, and biographers have speculated that his various artistic endeavors were only meant as stopgaps so he could find more work in warfare. 


Architecture.
 Da Vinci was fascinated with large-scale construction projects and served as a consultant to builders of his time. He designed a system for canal locks that wound up being extremely close to the types that are used today. He even dove into urban planning with his conception of “the ideal city.”


Art.
 Da Vinci painted a couple of masterpieces you may have heard of: the 
Mona Lisa
 and the 
Last Supper
. His iconic 
Vitruvian Man
 drawing of the human body is as much a piece of art as a scientific explanation. Da Vinci also revolutionized the use of landscapes in his art and was an early innovator in the use of oil paint. He was a sculptor as well.


Science.
 Da Vinci’s expertise made him a key figure in the development of studies in several different sciences. He was the first to speculate that fossils would prove that Earth was far older than those of his time believed. His detailed depictions of plants influenced how botany was studied. He made intensive studies on the motion of water. He designed mills, machines and engines that were powered by water. He even designed a musical keyboard that played bowed strings.


Occasionally he slept, we can assume. 


The Inventor of the German Language


Johann Wolfgang von Goethe was a celebrated German writer and polymath born in 1749. He wrote lauded dramas, poems, novels and an autobiography, as well as participated extensively in botany and human anatomy. 


On top of all this, he was an accomplished statesman and political figure, and was ennobled by the Duke of Saxe-Weimar before the age of forty. As was common at the time, Goethe received a classical, well-rounded education where his father encouraged him to embrace languages (including Greek, French, English, Latin and even Hebrew, among others) as well as a thorough physical education that included horse riding, fencing and dance. 


He originally studied law at Leipzig but disliked it hugely—his real passions were drawing and literature. In later life Goethe devoted himself exclusively to writing; in his seventies, however, he met frequently with the child musical prodigy Felix Mendelssohn, and helped him become recognized by comparing him to a young Mozart. 


Goethe himself inspired many of the great composers and was known to have a lifelong love for music. Today, Goethe is considered a national German treasure and requisite reading for any education in literature. So extensive and impactful was his work, that he is frequently referred to as having invented the German language.


Literature
. Goethe gained enormous recognition for his two early novels,
 
Götz von Berlichingen
 in 1773 and
 The Sorrows of Young Werther
 in 1774. These books were so influential they’ve been called “the first bestsellers,” with Goethe being identified as the founder of the literary movement of Romanticism. This movement still has effects on the way we think of literature and poetry today. If people recognize the name Goethe, however, they often associate it with his best-known work, 
Faust
. 


Later in life, he wrote 
Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship
 (which the philosopher Schopenhauer believed was one of the four greatest novels ever written—high praise indeed) as well as some plays and his own fable. In his late sixties Goethe dabbled with poetic “orientalism,” proving that a true polymath never stops learning, discovering and changing.


Botany
 
and physics.
 Goethe is best-known for his immense literary impact, but he was a prolific writer in the sciences too, devising optics experiments and a color theory of his own that went directly against the Newtonian framework. For Goethe, light was to be understood relativistically, and not mechanically, and his intimidatingly large 
Theory of Colors
 treatise explains how he believed color is perceived according to the way our nervous systems interpret it, and not because of factors in the external environment. 


Today, physicists understand that both environment and individual perception are important in color perception, but perhaps Goethe’s real achievement was in being courageous enough to question and challenge dominant theories of the time. We can still see philosophical echoes of his theory in modern disciplines today.


Goethe was also an accomplished scientist in his own right and did research in botany, geology, psychology and meteorology—setting the stage, according to some, for the later development of modern-day weather forecasting technology. 


He made a noteworthy anatomical discovery about the inter-maxillary bone that went against conventional scientific knowledge at the time. Goethe was known even in his time as an autodidact and Renaissance man, never for a second believing that his literary talents should exclude him from looking deeply into matters of medicine or anatomy.


Politics
. Goethe’s literary successes won him some celebrity and wealth, which in many ways landed him in the court of the Duke of Saxe-Weimer, where he soon climbed the ranks and earned successive titles and greater social liberties. 


He was at one point the war commissioner and for a shirt while the chancellor of Saxony—that’s where the “von” in his name came from—a title and rank equivalent to being a prime minister today. He managed the development of roads, oversaw the maintenance of mines and even participated in certain noted tax reforms of the period. Goethe was never a retiring and whimsical artiste, but an active and powerful member of his social world.


The Man who Proved Isaac Newton Wrong


Thomas Young was once summed up by a biographer as “the last man who knew everything.” Born in 1772 in England to a Quaker family, he had read the Bible through twice by the time he was four years old, had learnt a dozen languages by age fourteen and began work as a physician at just twenty-three. There is an anecdote that when young Thomas was being taught dancing, classmates found him with compass and ruler, constructing a mathematical diagram of a minuet, so as to better dance it. 


He was a poster child for polymaths of his era, mastering physics, mechanics, physiology, language, music (he invented his own method for tuning musical instruments) and Egyptology and hieroglyphs. Though his interests and achievements were many, he is often most remembered for his key contributions in the translation of the Rosetta stone. 


After inheriting a granduncle’s estate, he was financially able to pursue private practice, as well as his own research and publication of medical articles. In 1801 he was appointed a professor of natural history (then more closely understood as physics) and later the foreign secretary of the Royal Society, and then a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 


Young was a secretary on other commissions, associations, academies and boards, overseeing projects and policies of many kinds. By the time of his death at fifty-six, he was revered as one of the most accomplished and prolific men of his era.


Physics
. Arguably Young’s most important contribution was in the now well-established wave theory of light. The renowned double slit experiment (a foundation for much of the ground covered later in physics and quantum mechanics) was first carried out by Young, along with ripple tank demonstrations, showing that light displayed interference patterns exactly like those of water waves, suggesting its nature as a wave. 


This polymath also countered Newton’s previous supposition that light was a particle. It took many years for Young to be taken seriously, and many years more for the seeming paradox to be resolved—light is now thought of as both a wave and a particle. 


Young’s other mechanical and engineering contributions include work on elasticity, stress, surface tension, capillarity and pendulum dynamics that have remained relevant in their respective fields of engineering, mathematics or physics.


Medicine
. Young’s primary training and early occupation was as a highly esteemed physician who somehow found time to conduct his own research and publish important medical writings and observations in haemodynamics (the study of blood’s dynamic flow through the body), consumptive diseases, astigmatism of the eye (a disease he discovered), and even devised a quick formula for determining children’s medicine dosages. 


Medicine was a lifelong passion for Young, and he wrote of his medical expertise, after being criticized for some of his scientific work: 
"I have resolved to confine my studies and my pen to medical subjects only. For the talents which God has not given me, I am not responsible, but those which I possess, I have hitherto cultivated and employed as diligently as my opportunities have allowed me to do; and I shall continue to apply them with assiduity, and in tranquility, to that profession which has constantly been the ultimate object of all my labors.”


Linguistics
. Rather charmingly, Young published a dissertation in 1796 where he casually included in the last four pages a guide to a universal phonetic alphabet (“so as not to leave these pages blank”) and penned an immense 
Encyclopædia Britannica
 article titled “Languages” summarizing the grammar and vocabulary of 400 languages, and coining many new linguistic terms in the process. 


His most significant work, however, was in ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics, and he translated entirely one section (the “demotic” script) of the Rosetta stone, identifying that it consisted of both ideographic and phonetic signs. He also wrote on the history of Christianity in Nubia and, despite his own clear religious convictions, was an impartial observer. Though Young competed bitterly with others in his field and there was some controversy associated with his findings, his overall contributions to this area are undeniable. 


In surveying Young’s range of interests, we are given the impression of a man who pursued his curiosities despite pushback, criticism or disagreement, and who seemed to draw genuine satisfaction and joy from expanding his considerable mental prowess to the fullest. The word “genius” certainly seems appropriate, but it’s also clear that Young was an energetic, hard-working and dynamic individual who accomplished much in his relatively short life. 


The Man Who Thought, Therefore He Was


Though the famed philosopher Rene Descartes cannot perhaps claim as wide a scope as the other polymaths on our list, he nevertheless made colossal strides in math, philosophy and the scientific process in general, and to such a penetrating depth that his famous “
cogito ergo sum—I think therefore I am”
 is now regarded as one of the grand cornerstones in the history of Western philosophy. 


Philosophy
. Descartes was the one to shift the focus onto the philosophical question, of what can we be certain? Essentially, the idea is that if there is doubt, there must be a doubter, which proves undoubtedly the existence of the doubter. In saying “I think” there must be a thinker. 


There are always limits and doubts associated with our senses, even our rationality—who can say we are not deluded or mistaken or deceived in our faculties? However, if we are to determine without any doubt something we can know for sure, we can begin with this maxim and know that at base, we exist. 


Descartes’ 1637 work titled “Discourse on the Method” was a powerhouse covering the underlying maxims of inquiry into the sciences, proof of God and the soul, an approach to physics, and the heart and soul of all beings (polymaths tend to go large, as you may have noticed). His work is still studied today, and many of his theories and concepts have become intimately woven into much of the fabric of philosophical thought that followed. 


Though the scope of it is well beyond any brief introduction possible here, we can say that Descartes pioneered a deep attitude of skepticism, taking nothing for given that couldn’t be proven—and on this basis and this basis alone a solid philosophy of any kind could be built. For this and other reasons, Descartes was considered somewhat a founder of modern philosophy, and set the tone for many philosophers to follow in his wake.


His 
Meditations of First Philosophy
 were likewise influential, and his formulations and proposed processes of scientific and philosophical thought are still being discussed today. Though it might not seem like much today, the fact that we consider the mind and body two distinct entities is largely thanks to Descartes’ extensive work on this “problem,” and the implications this has had for Western thought are incalculable.


Math
. 
Descartes created the Cartesian coordinate system—the one you use every time you make or read any kind of graph. With Cartesian coordinates, a point in two dimensions can be represented by two numbers in a plane; this convention has been used in linear algebra, differential geometry, group theory, analytical geometry, calculus and more. Any geometric figure or equation can be transformed or represented on a Cartesian plane, with many useful implications. 


Descartes also invented a way to determine the number of positive or negative real roots of a polynomial. The convention to use 
x
 and 
y
 for variables in equations? The convention of showing squared variables with superscripts, i.e. x
2
? That was Descartes’ work, too. 


Science
. Descartes contributed greatly to the field of optics (discovering a law of refraction outlined in his treatise, 
Dioptrique, 
called Snell’s Law), and in general was influential in the growth of modern physics. He devised a law of conservation and of mechanical momentum. 


He was the first to formally suggest a theory of natural laws, and his first was, “Each thing always remains in the same state; and consequently, when it is once moved, it always continues to move.” The second was, “All movement is, of itself, along straight lines.” Sound familiar? These were later adapted as Newton’s first law of motion.
 


The Builder of Pyramids


Polymathy is not just a phenomena reserved for Western intellectual figures in a narrow historical period—there were “Renaissance men” long, long before the Renaissance, and one of the very first polymaths ever hailed from a region long considered the cradle of civilization: Egypt. Imhotep (the name means “he who comes in peace”) was a doctor, theologian, high priest, poet, engineer, sage, vizier and chief minister to King Djoser, the second king of Egypt’s third dynasty. Imhotep was born a commoner in a region a little south of modern-day Cairo in the 27
th
 century BC. 


Though it’s difficult to imagine today, the ancient Egyptians were an intellectually advanced civilization making incredible bounds in the sciences and arts while most of the world was still living a more primitive hunter-gatherer lifestyle. Imhotep earned many titles and honorifics throughout his life, and was eventually deified in his own time as the god of medicine and wisdom. Though Imhotep’s achievements are immense, there’s reason to believe there were other prolific polymaths of his era, too. 


Medicine
. Imhotep had a notable reputation as a physician and surgeon, and could treat and diagnose a purported 200 diseases that other nations were still grappling with treating hundreds of years later. In fact, Imhotep was experimenting with the treatment of disease more than 2000 years before the existence of Hippocrates, the so-called “father of medicine.” One of his key contributions was the idea that diseases were a natural phenomenon and not, as was believed at the time, punishments sent by the gods. There are documents to support his proficiency at remedying ophthalmological disease, gallstones, gout, dermatological problems, tuberculosis, and even dentistry, using natural extracts common in Egypt at the time.


Imhotep had extensive knowledge of human anatomy and physiology of the body’s different systems that would have been very advanced for the time. Furthermore, the Edwin Smith Surgical Papyrus attributed to him has given historians a clear view on the state of ancient Egyptian medicine and healthcare. 


This papyrus documents several significant patient cases including head injuries and stab wounds, as well as outlining a wealth of anatomical terms and treatments for a range of diseases. Contrary to the spirit of medicine at the time, this more rational treatise did not refer much to magic or the gods. Instead, we find the beginnings of a medical ethics, helping practitioners distinguish between treatable and untreatable ailments. 


Imhotep was known for his determination and strength in fighting unknown diseases with tools and models that would to our modern sensibilities seem very limited indeed. Imhotep also pioneered a mummification technique that allowed the internal organs to be removed and preserved in separate containers. 


Engineering and architecture. 
The ancient Egyptians held in high esteem those with the talent for magnificent feats of engineering, masonry, design, geometry, mathematics and building. Imhotep was the renowned architect for the Step Pyramid of Saqqara—Egypt’s first pyramid, and an engineering marvel never before attempted. 


The Step Pyramid is widely considered one of the earliest cut stone constructions of its size, and the tallest man-made structure on earth at the time. Imhotep oversaw not only the complex construction of the pyramid itself but the associated courtyards, temples, pavilions, columned halls and shrines. The novel limestone rock techniques used in this magnificent construction are impressively strong and durable, and, with the structure still standing 
almost 5000 years later
, a testament to Imhotep’s forward thinking and vision. 


Imhotep is also known to have created a sophisticated irrigation system that made use of the Nile River to protect the country from even prolonged periods of drought. His legacy also includes many key writings on religion, poetry, medicine and architecture. Ancient Egypt was a flourishing and highly advanced civilization for thousands of years, becoming a center of growth, development and prosperity. Imhotep, being one of the earliest pillars of this great period of antiquity, no doubt contributed his own enormous genius to ancient Egypt’s triumphs. 


Distilled Knowledge


Lesson 1: Diversify


Whoever they were, whichever era of human history they lived in and whatever their interests and contributions, polymaths all had essentially the same winning strategy: diversification. The magic happened in the fact that these noteworthy individuals always had several projects on the go. It wasn’t their individual endeavors that won them their success and reputations, but the combination of a range of skills, and the fertile areas 
between
 fields that they were able to explore and capitalize on. 


Many of the polymaths on our list had contemporary peers who worked on the same projects and even, in the case of Thomas Young, were fearsome rivals. However, it’s interesting to note that those individuals who devoted themselves diligently to just one discipline are not revered as much as those whose involvement may well have been shallower, but brought along with it the fresh perspective of a mind used to dealing with a range of problems, in a range of ways. It’s plain to see: polymaths are able to solve any problem, in any field, at a higher level of understanding. They do this not in spite of their divided interest and multiple projects, but 
because
 of them. 


The work of one expert in one area alone is like a single point on a page. Add just one more point, one more idea or perspective, and you suddenly have a straight line. A polymath, however, adds dimensionality to every bit of information they encounter or idea they produce. Their work is like a three- or four- or five-dimensional figure, expanding in all directions, alive and complex because of its dynamic connections to the “bigger picture.” It’s this ability for bigger picture ideas, for thoughts that seem to always get outside the box somehow, that characterizes polymath thought. It’s no coincidence that many of humanity’s truly paradigm-shifting breakthroughs have been made not by specialists, but by vibrant, colorful individuals who seemed to have no fixed specialty other than “dabbling.”


Lesson 2: Be fearless


We only see the final outcome of a polymath’s life, sometimes from a great historical distance. It can seem like this kind of person flitted happily from task to task, racking up achievements with ease while others stood by in awe and applauded. The more unglamorous truth is that polymaths are often loners, working quietly by themselves despite sometimes extreme resistance and interference from the rest of the world. Many of the world’s greatest scientists, authors and physicians have had to push back against ignorance, fear, politics and more—and polymaths are no different. 


All of our example polymaths experienced, to some degree, doubt, criticism or mockery from others. The key point is that this didn’t seem to matter. For a polymath driven by a deep inner drive for knowledge, the misunderstanding and disapproval of others is just a small impediment. That’s why so many accomplished historical figures have also been recorded as having lifelong disagreements with others in their field, or else pushing back against entire disciplines or the grand theories that have dominated them for years. 


Though many of the polymaths on our list were fortunate to not have to endure financial insecurity, some did in fact hail from poor backgrounds, and many deliberately opted for poverty rather than seek work that would take them away from their grander vision. We can be inspired by this attitude: polymaths may well be endowed with a genius that many of us can only dream of, but they were nevertheless human beings who faced adversity and found a way to pursue what mattered to them anyway. 


Lesson 3: Seek authenticity


Something that accompanies this curious and fearless spirit is the courage needed to truly be oneself. Polymaths strive for new and unique achievements: fresh visions, novel horizons and totally original combinations of ideas. They do this by being fascinating and unique individuals themselves. Earlier in this book we saw that narrowly defining yourself with fixed labels is a surefire way to ensure a narrow-minded, limited existence. Instead, polymaths resist easy definition and focus simply on being what they are, following what inspires them and exploring their unique endowment of gifts to the fullest. 


They are, in many ways, the embodiment of the spirit of “growth mindset”—they demonstrate what can be accomplished when we let go of any fixed ideas of not only what can be known, but also who we can be. They are quick to acknowledge mistakes, because the faster they admit they are wrong, the sooner they can find a way to be right. And in any case, for a polymath it is seldom about being right—but about gaining knowledge. 


Because polymaths are driven by sheer curiosity and the will for mastery, they are only tangentially interested in money or fame. This means they can pursue a dream long after it stops being profitable or approved of, and they can carry on producing brilliantly even after they’ve already won themselves ample accolades. 


This devotion to the process of learning itself, and not its outward reward, is what keeps polymaths surprisingly honest, straightforward and genuine people. They simply have no time for self-delusion or distraction—these things get between them and the enormously exciting and mysterious world they seek to know and explore.


Takeaways:




Polymaths have strange, winding life paths when looked at in hindsight. But there is quite a bit that we can learn simply from analyzing the lives and approaches of some particularly notable polymaths from history. They show what can be done through a combination of knowledge, hard work, and pure curiosity that must be satiated.  


First we must start with the most famous polymath of them all, Leonardo da Vinci. He excelled in just about everything, though you probably know him for his artwork. But he was also a military strategist, sculptor, anatomist, and machinist to name a few. 


Johann von Goethe was referred to as the inventor of the German language because his literary works were so influential and important to German culture. However, he also found time to become a famous botanist, and rose in the ranks of German political structure to become the war commissioner and oversaw a series of tax reforms.


Thomas Young is a curious case, because few people know him by name, but instead know him as the one who proved Newton’s theories wrong. Obviously this required deep knowledge of physics and the scientific method. Young was also one of the main driving forces behind deciphering the Egyptian language of hieroglyphics through his work on translating the Rosetta Stone. All of this, despite his primary training as a physician.


Rene Descartes invented modern geometry, was a leading physicist, and was one of the most prominent Western philosophers in history. He is most famous for his investigations on the essence of knowledge and what could and could not be proven. This was eventually reduced down to the statement that if one thinks, they exist. 
I think, therefore I am. 


Imhotep is a name long lost to history, despite his influence in ancient Egypt. He was the physician to the pharaohs that he served, and he was the architect for the first pyramids in Egyptian history. His engineering prowess didn’t stop at the pyramids, however, as he was responsible for much of the early irrigation that allowed the Egyptian civilization to channel the power of the Nile.


We’ve already devoted a chapter to the traits of the polymathic mind, but perhaps it becomes clearer when we track these traits in real people. We come to three common threads of diversity, fearlessness, and blind pursuit: diversity of knowledge that allows greater novelty within each domain, fearlessness of new ideas and approaches without doggedly sticking to convention, and the blind pursuit of a goal that can only be described as needing to scratch an itch.




 


 









Summary Guide 


 


 


 


I would be highly, greatly, amazingly grateful and appreciative if you felt like taking just 30 seconds and leaving me a review on Amazon! Reviews are incredibly important to an author’s livelihood, and they are shockingly hard to come by. Strange, right? 


Anyway, the more reviews my books get, the more I am actually able to continue my first love of writing. If you felt any way about this book, please leave me a review and let me know that I’m on the right track.


 


Chapter 1. Jack of All Trades


 




When we think of the word polymath, we think of geniuses throughout history whose achievements we have no chance of coming close to. That may be true, but there are nuggets of knowledge we can utilize from studying their approaches and combination of mastery. A polymath is someone who is an expert in multiple fields. It may seem like an oversimplification, but that’s the essence of it. However, the magic happens when these multiple fields collide and help you navigate, solve problems, and think outside of the box.


The approach espoused in this book is to become at least pi-shaped, and ideally comb- or even star-shaped. This stands in stark contrast to being T-shaped. Horizontal lines represent breadth of knowledge, while vertical ones show depth of knowledge. Who has time for that? Well, plenty of people—and there are multiple studies showing the efficacy of teams with diverse backgrounds, individuals with a wide array of talents, and the high performance of people who apply old knowledge to new situations—Leonardo da Vinci, Elon Musk, Benjamin Franklin, and Aristotle to name a few. This type of intermixing is theorized to actually have caused the Renaissance period in Florence, Italy. 


It may seem like we’re beating a dead horse already, but the importance of gaining diversity of knowledge cannot be overstated. There is even a problem associated with having too much knowledge in one field, a dilemma of expertise that runs too deep. This is called the Einstellung effect, and it essentially describes the man with a hammer who sees everything as a nail. The deeper you are immersed in one subject, the harder it is to see other tools, methods, approaches, and perspectives outside of your own. A biologist will see only biology-related problems, and so on. 


The easiest way to think about polymathy is to picture working on the assembly line in one of Henry Ford’s factories. That is, each person has one function only, and as such, can be easily replaced at any time. The more polymathic you can be, the more functions you can inhabit, and the less replaceable you will become.




 


Chapter 2. The Polymathic Mind


 




The set of knowledge that a polymath has may differ completely from another polymath, but at their cores, they are extremely similar. This is because of the drive, curiosity, and openness required to become pi or comb-shaped, as opposed to just T-shaped. For instance, do you think that someone like Leonardo da Vinci looked at a problem he was unfamiliar with and said, “Someone else will take care of that, I’m going to take a nap”? Probably not. 


The first mental trait of polymaths is extreme adaptability and openness. Whatever the obstacle, it can be navigated or circumvented. It can be solved. To achieve this, you must embody flexible and resourceful thinking, and not be bound by convention or personal habit. You must be open to new perspectives and the unfamiliar and novel. For instance, who was the first person to look at a cow’s udders and think that they should drink what comes out? 


Second, polymaths live experimentally. This isn’t to say that they are always conducting traditional scientific experiments; rather, they’re applying the scientific method by analyzing and investigating whatever they come across. They feel safe doing this and simply want to gain new information and sate their curiosity. It’s almost like they cannot stop themselves from doing it.


Third, polymaths embody the beginner mindset, which is actually far more useful than the expert mindset. When you’re a beginner, you have ten times more questions than answers. And that’s a good thing. It makes you listen and question and dig deeper. Experts all too often fall into the trap of assuming they know too much, which inevitably causes blind spots. The beginner mindset should be applied in combination with critical thinking, and together they create a worthy line of inquiry.


Fourth, polymaths have belief in themselves. Whether it is well-placed or delusional, they believe that they will reach their goal. Many people are their own worst enemies when it comes to learning. But this speaks to something even more fundamental: the belief of agency, or ability to act and achieve. This means that output equals input, within reasonable expectations. One cannot reach a goal if they don’t believe they are capable of it first. 


Finally, polymaths can be described as relentless. How else would you describe people with deep knowledge in multiple realms? Being relentless can be defined as overcoming obstacles and discomfort at all costs. And yet often, the only true cost is simply being uncomfortable. Polymaths have the utmost self-discipline because starting from ground zero, even if you are interested in a topic, is difficult, tiring, and can cause mass confusion. But that’s life. And being comfortable with this uncertainty is a skill that makes you relentless toward getting to point B.




Chapter 3. Novice to Expert in 10 Steps


 




I’m fairly certain that you don’t need any more convincing to become a polymath. So instead of harping on the “whys,” we can get down to the “hows” of becoming a polymath. This will involve stretching your mind and starting from ground zero in at least one new discipline or realm of knowledge. It will be a tedious, tiring, and frustrating process. But it will be less of those things if you have a proper plan in place.


Thus, we come to a 10-step process on learning a new subject from scratch. Actually, the title of each step is fairly descriptive to the process itself:






Gain a broad overview.


Narrow the scope of your desired knowledge or skill.


Define what success means to you and work backwards to establish a plan of attack.


Compile the resources—focus on quantity here.


Create a curriculum and study plan based on all the resources you’ve collected.


Filter and curate the resources you’ve found based on what you want to achieve.


Dive in and immerse yourself in information.


After you’ve gained a basic understanding of everything, explore, play, and discover the bounds of your comprehension with questions.


Answer the questions you articulated in the previous step and make the connections that you were lacking.


Teach this skill or information to someone else to solidify your understanding, and also as a mirror to see what you still do not understand.






Something that is unspoken yet omnipresent throughout this entire process is notes. Notes, for all intents and purposes, function as your second brain. This is where you write your findings, make connections, review, and synthesize information. If properly organized and optimized, your notes can become the very structure of your new set of information or skills. But that’s a big if. Thus, we come to a special method of note-taking that yours truly put together. It’s not easy, but that’s kind of the point.


The four steps are: (1) normal notetaking with as much detail as you can, (2) summarizing the information in your own words, clarifying the significance and noting questions, (3) connecting this particular piece of information to the lesson at large, and then (4) answering remaining questions and then summarizing each distinct page or section again.




 


Chapter 4. Intentional Discovery


 




This chapter is all about exactly what might be worth your time to learn and become polymathic in. Yes, it’s true that our polymath role models all seemed to possess talents in both arts and sciences. That is to say that there was usually a mixture of soft and hard skills. Albert Einstein himself was a large proponent of what he called combinatory play, in which he would indulge in playing the violin when stuck on a particularly vexing problem to clear his mind and find different perspectives. Indeed, this tactic is something we can also channel when we think about what to spend our time on. 


Cartoonist Scott Adams coined the term 
skill stacking
, and it’s about developing the best combination of traits and skills for your particular purpose.


A skill stack is something you likely already possess. It’s based on the concept that you can’t rely on one skill or proficiency to stand out in whatever you are trying to accomplish. Only 1 percent of us can be in the top 1 percent of a skill, and that likely won’t be you. Thus, we should create a skill stack that is composed of three or four interrelated skills that you have reached the top 10–15 percent of. It’s a realistic goal and will set you apart from your competition. The more unique, varied, and synergistic your skill stack becomes, the more formidable you will be.  


A major key is to have the skills be related. This means you shouldn’t just focus on your strengths, which oddly enough can hold you back. Take a look at the top performers in your field to see what various skill stacks they possess. When you know what you want to increase your proficiency in, it’s as easy as reading a couple of books or a few articles, attending a few lectures, and gaining some basic exposure. This alone will make you better informed and prepared than 90 percent of the general population—this positions you as an expert! This is using the concept of polymathy in the best way for your specific life circumstances.




 


Chapter 5. Standing on the Shoulders of Giants


 




Polymaths have strange, winding life paths when looked at in hindsight. But there is quite a bit that we can learn simply from analyzing the lives and approaches of some particularly notable polymaths from history. They show what can be done through a combination of knowledge, hard work, and pure curiosity that must be satiated.  


First we must start with the most famous polymath of them all, Leonardo da Vinci. He excelled in just about everything, though you probably know him for his artwork. But he was also a military strategist, sculptor, anatomist, and machinist to name a few. 


Johann von Goethe was referred to as the inventor of the German language because his literary works were so influential and important to German culture. However, he also found time to become a famous botanist, and rose in the ranks of German political structure to become the war commissioner and oversaw a series of tax reforms.


Thomas Young is a curious case, because few people know him by name, but instead know him as the one who proved Newton’s theories wrong. Obviously this required deep knowledge of physics and the scientific method. Young was also one of the main driving forces behind deciphering the Egyptian language of hieroglyphics through his work on translating the Rosetta Stone. All of this, despite his primary training as a physician.


Rene Descartes invented modern geometry, was a leading physicist, and was one of the most prominent Western philosophers in history. He is most famous for his investigations on the essence of knowledge and what could and could not be proven. This was eventually reduced down to the statement that if one thinks, they exist. 
I think, therefore I am. 


Imhotep is a name long lost to history, despite his influence in ancient Egypt. He was the physician to the pharaohs that he served, and he was the architect for the first pyramids in Egyptian history. His engineering prowess didn’t stop at the pyramids, however, as he was responsible for much of the early irrigation that allowed the Egyptian civilization to channel the power of the Nile.


We’ve already devoted a chapter to the traits of the polymathic mind, but perhaps it becomes clearer when we track these traits in real people. We come to three common threads of diversity, fearlessness, and blind pursuit: diversity of knowledge that allows greater novelty within each domain, fearlessness of new ideas and approaches without doggedly sticking to convention, and the blind pursuit of a goal that can only be described as needing to scratch an itch.




 


I would be highly, greatly, amazingly grateful and appreciative if you felt like taking just 30 seconds and leaving me a review on Amazon! Reviews are incredibly important to an author’s livelihood, and they are shockingly hard to come by. Strange, right? 


Anyway, the more reviews my books get, the more I am actually able to continue my first love of writing. If you felt any way about this book, please leave me a review and let me know that I’m on the right track.


 



















Peter Hollins










Polymath: Master Multiple Disciplines, Learn New Skills, Think Flexibly, and Become Extraordinary Autodidact


























































© Peter Hollins 2020



