
















POWERFUL CONFIDENCE


Self Confidence is a state of mind. If you have confidence you will have self-worth and you will believe that you are capable of success






Annalie Coetzer























Copyright © 2017 Annalie Coetzer


All rights reserved.




http://lifesuccessblog.com

 Don’t forget to claim your FREE eBook and 
sign up

 to my reader’s list to find out about new releases, giveaways and great discounts!
















Facebook: facebook.com/lifesuc6blog


















Twitter: @LifeSuc6Blog













Contents






Your FREE book










Prologue




















1.






First Things First


























2.






What Is Self-Confidence?


























3.






The Roots of Low Self-Confidence


























4.






Ways To Increase Your Confidence


























5.






Self-Confidence From Within


























6.






The Last Word–Encourage Yourself
















Thank You For Reading










Also by Annalie Coetzer















Your Free Ebook
















Your FREE eBook! Have the courage to take chances, which other people will only dream off...




Join my readers list for free book offers, regular discounts, and giveaways exclusive to my book readers. Click 
here

 to get started: 
http://epurl.com/cHePf5















Prologue




















Why wait? Start today. Create a positive attitude - believe in yourself, your abilities, and your goals.








Self-confidence is one of the most prominent life skills we need. This is true for almost every aspect of our lives. Unfortunately, so many people struggle to find it. Self-confident people like who they are and are content with their surroundings. They face their fears, are risk takers, and most of the time, achieve the set goals. They identify what they are capable of, and know how to use their abilities to get past the obstacles in their way. They see their lives in a positive light, more so when things are not going the way they planned.


On the contrary, a person who is not self-confident is less likely to realise that he can achieve his goals. Such a person will have a negative perspective about himself. This lack of confidence can make it difficult to become successful.




To increase your self-confidence,

 you will need to 

develop a positive attitude about yourself, while learning to deal with any negative emotions that may arise. Anyone can accomplish this kind of self-confidence, as self-confidence is a learned skill that can be practiced and mastered. Self-confidence is something you can improve on every day. You should learn to set goals and take risks because life's challenges will further help to improve your self-confidence.


If you don't believe in yourself, how do you expect anybody else to believe in you? Try some of the tips listed in chapter two and practice them daily, starting from today. With some time and practice, you will feel the foundation of self-confidence growing within you.















First Things First












O



ur self-confidence is the accumulation of all our reactions to the experiences that life brought us, the manner by which we were guided by the older people in our environment and how we and the society view us. Many factors are contributors to our personal understanding of confidence.






One determining factor is how well we expect ourselves and the circumstances of our lives should be.


















Many tend to fall into the trap of creating unrealistic expectations. In the process, their losses are becoming too painful that they eventually suffer the effects of creating lower self-confidence.




Others,

 on the other hand, lean more on playing safe and thus create more achievable goals that are easier to attain. And because achievements add largely to the development of self-confidence, these people benefit from knowing that they are somehow capable of doing something. 




You may already have heard

 the phrase - "it’s all in the mind". And to many psychological and emotional conditions, we can actually say that everything is all in the mind. They rooted and develop from the mind and so, the antidote might as well come from the same source.

 




You can always

 condition yourself to feel the way you want or to feel the way you don't want. You can suppress emotions and in the process, help emotions materialize. Say you want to feel hatred of yourself over not being good enough. If you make yourself believe in that hatred and you truly are convinced that you are not good enough, you will only get two products- one, genuine hatred and two, lower self-esteem.




The majority

 of us are caught unaware with our words. We sometimes fail to check ourselves of the things we are registering in our subconscious mind. 




You may not have deliberately said

 it recently but since you are used to hearing yourself mumble- "I am a looser", or "I'm not worthy of anything", your subconscious self might as well believe that these are the facts. 




Even now as we speak,

 many out there believe in these statements.




They are not mere words.

 They are for real and they will actually dig deep in your subconscious mind, which will then be integrated into your being. If you believe in these then there is no way that you won't believe in their direct opposite

.




Central to building

 self-confidence is one's belief in himself. Whatever you set your mind to believe will all be taken as factual. Thus, you only have to manipulate the values that you would like to acquire. Otherwise, no amount of waiting can make you change. The motivation must come from you. Suggestions may come from outward sources but in the end, it will be you and yourself that will set out to do the battle. 




Changes must begin from you.

 You may start with talking to yourself using positive statements like "you are great" (for you truly are a great individual waiting for your talents to be tapped). Or "you are beautiful" (because believe in this or not each one of us were created beautifully to give glory to our Maker).




You can’t stay long

 in your madness over having low self-confidence. Somehow, you have to change your perspectives and live a different life that looks forward to better things.















What Is Self-Confidence?














Self-confidence is to be secure in oneself and sure of one's abilities. To put it another way, self-confidence is the way we think and feel about ourselves.








This idea about yourself is changeable as your situation and circumstances are changing, and it is normal to be confident in one area, and less confident in another.














Where do you get self-confidence from? Self-confidence comes from three powerful abilities that all of us possess:


- The ability to be positive rather than negative about yourself and your potential.


- The ability to be certain you have powerful capabilities (regardless of what other people say).


- The ability to continue thinking positively about yourself no matter what.


If you continue to develop and use these abilities, you will become self-confident.


The difference between self-confidence and self-esteem.




Self-confidence


refers

 to how we feel about ourselves and if we believe in our own abilities v
ersus self-esteem

, which refers to whether we value ourselves or not. A healthy self-esteem should lead to being self-confident

.




Where do

 you get a healthy self-esteem?


The experiences of early childhood are influential in achieving a good level of self-esteem. This will lead to ultimate confidence. If the experiences we had were negative, we will think and feel negatively about ourselves.


Self-esteem takes shape in early childhood, and could be influenced by:


Your own thoughts,


The way other people reacted to you,


Media messages and experiences you had - to name a few factors.


Your own thoughts have the biggest impact on your self-esteem and are within your control.




Why is

 it important to have good confidence and self-esteem? Low self-confidence can restrict your quality of life, resulting in communication difficulties, social anxiety, and just preventing you from experiencing success in your life.




There are

 many benefits of becoming a more self-assured person.


To name a few, you will experience greater:


-Self-worth and more happiness and enjoyment of life.


-Freedom from self-doubt, fear, and anxiousness.


-Peace of mind and less stress.


-Lots more energy and motivation to act.















The Roots of Low Self-Confidence












There is no single factor that we can consider as the pool from which low self-confidence comes from.










I



n fact, it is the accumulation of mishaps and lacks in the past that we are failing to unearth and give due remedy. It is the outcome of our failure to recognize who we truly are and what are the hampers to our own growth














Perhaps you live under cold critical eyes that know nothing of imperfection. Or maybe you are the underling of a brother who achieves in school, thus the intense focus on him and frequent disregard for you. Probably people do things for you when they feel like you can’t do things on your own. 




These are

 subtle triggering instances that would all contribute to your eventual loss of self-confidence. 




Because of such

 poor models and lack of attention given on you, you would soon find that you are really incapable of doing things when in fact you have gifts beyond your own reckoning. 




Your belief

 on their beliefs would then send you blaming yourselves for all your failures. And at times, you would even convince yourself that you are also responsible for the failures of those people you have close contact with.




As a child,

 sweeping statements will be a commonplace for you. You will convince yourself of how stupid you are even without the reinforcement that comes from the warped people surrounding you. 




And as the

 process goes on, you would learn to ignore the blind negative accusations that other people throw at you. And to add up more miseries on your already-piled up 

problems, you would learn to accept that there is nothing more to life but defeats and failures.




Your faith

 in yourself by now is much too weakened. Therefore, you would not try to resolve your conflict on sense of self and would not dare plan how to get around this self-tormenting course of life. Solutions and helpful people would come to you though. However, your reactions would either be to push them away or totally disregard them. 


Continue at this phase and you would soon discover that salvation from low self-confidence is presenting itself to you but you are all too muddled in your own world that it would be way to impossible to cure the problem. Unless, a life changing miracle would cross your way.















Ways To Increase Your Confidence














"Confidence comes not from always being right but from not fearing to be wrong." - Peter T. McIntyre










Don't be fooled.

 Even the most confident people have their insecurities and the most competent are flawed.














Though we may have dreamt of being the perfect persons we see in other people, we have to understand that nothing can be perfect. The things we would want to happen in our 

lives don't necessarily happen the way we want them to be however tactful our plans were. The very things we want to attain will not pass by us so long as we won't work towards achieving them. It takes effort to make things happen though. 




And the self-confident

 people have acquired their attributes not out of luck. An author once said that the most beautiful people do not just happen. They must know hardship, they must know suffering, they must know defeat, struggle and loss before they truly understand the depth of their worth.




Everyone is built for recognition,

 for achievement, for fame. The capacity to be confident of oneself was not given by random, it lies in all of us. Like with all other things we are in equal standing with that of the fellow sitting next to us. The difference though lies in our personal treatments of the capabilities that we were endowed with.




Initial development

 of self-confidence roots from our childhood, the fashion by which we were reared, the opportunities that honed us to be the persons that we are and our reactions to the challenges that were given to us.




At a very young age,

 we already know how it feels to be humiliated or encouraged. At a very young age, we are already capable of giving interpretations with the way things happen to us. If at childhood we failed to react positively due to reasons like lack of or improper guidance, poor models 

and insufficient knowledge, it is likely that the succeeding phases of our lives will become dependent with how the things went during these ages.




But with age comes maturity.

 And maturity arises from the experiences we are encountering. Experiences, as we know them, are among the great teachers we have. Failure to take advantage of the experiences we encounter will only send us back to the same circumstances until we are able to spot where we have gone wrong. Therefore, we have no excuse that we were not given the chance to improve with each experience. 




You see,

 improving self-confidence is just a matter of becoming mature. If you will become complacent with the idea of setting back to lack of achievement and recognition then you will fail to comprehend that life is more than mediocre living.




Everyone can improve

 self-confidence regardless of how we were in the past. What only matters are now- the present. If you would take stock of yourself and believe that you have the capacity to be anything and everything you want to be, you are sure to be a step higher towards achieving self-confidence. 


There are lots of ways that you may take to help you improve your self-confidence. The keys are to have the positive attitude that anybody can do anything and adaptation of the belief that you can be anybody and you can be anything you set your mind to be

.




If all else fails,

 remember the moments when you felt good because you were able to achieve something by feeling good about yourself. That way, you will be encouraged to become a better person you always wanted to be.


In the rest of the chapter, we will discuss 17 strategies which will lead to rapid growth in your self-confidence levels. They are all easy to implement, and will help you to become more self-assured:




Stay


away from negativity and focus on the positive.

 Consider getting away from the individuals who bring down your confidence. (Remember: You owe nobody an explanation). Stop focusing on the problems in your life and, instead, focus on positive changes. When you remain focused on your purpose and not your problem, you can be happy even when life seems to fall apart. See the positive in everything and focus on it. If you place more energy into all the positive things around you, your confidence will soon shine through.




You were born confident.

 Confidence was your original nature before time began to wear it away, and before you formed doubts and insecurities about how other people saw you. A kid will keep trying to do the same thing over and over without losing hope, and without losing confidence. Then why do we lose hope? It’s because we unlearned how to be positive! We were taught how to lose hope and how to become afraid before we test something new. When you experience a lack of confidence, remind yourself that we were all born confident. We can get our confidence back if we learn how to do away with learned behaviour and thoughts

.




Change your body


language and image.

 Observe your posture, smile, look people in the eye, and speak slowly and clearly. If you act confidently, you’ll not only feel in control, but people will hold much more confidence in you. Draw back your shoulders; this gives the impression you are a confident person. A Smile will make you more enjoyable to be around. Style your hair and dress nicely. Others will perceive you as successful and self-assured. (Avoid offending media. What you read or watch has a huge impact on how you relate to yourself. Be particular about the magazines and websites you view).




Be


kind to yourself

 - learn to know yourself and to forgive yourself. Identify your weaknesses and strengths. List five things you do well that you enjoy. List another five things you are not good with but you would like to learn. Use your strong points and improve where there’s room to grow, you’ll develop confidence as time goes on. Do not be too critical of yourself. Learn how to forgive yourself (like you would forgive a friend). The next time you make a mistake, do not insult yourself. Rather, practice saying something like, “I made a mistake, but it’s ok. It does not make me a bad person.




Never give up,


never give in, and never accept failure.

 Low self-confidence is often caused by the negative thoughts running through our minds. If you are always saying bad things to yourself, you become that way. Identify your negative thoughts and stop them right there. (They will be pessimistic and will hold you back to achieving good self-

esteem.) You are getting what you are repeating to yourself. Replace these thoughts for positive affirmations. Pay attention to your negative thoughts and then bend them around to positive thoughts. (Your positive thoughts should be given more space than your negative thoughts.) The more you counter your negativity with positivity, the more natural this will become.




Expect success


.

 Trust in a positive outcome. Don’t wish to attain success, expect success. Confidence grows out of success… but confidence also combines an attitude shift to an anticipation of success. It might seem unusual to expect success as you can’t predict the future, but pessimism can undermine your performance, preventing you from achieving success. Instead of concentrating on the negative, focus on what you want to happen. Thoughts such as, "I'm getting it right, I will be confident". Attempt to see the successes in every new day and you’ll notice they will increase.




Become assertive.

 Take up an assertive way of speaking by avoiding unnecessary nervous chatter and giggles in your speech. You will see how your self-confidence rises, and will you note that people take you seriously and listen to you more.




Be prepared


.

 When you do not know what is required from you, it’s easy to get lost in fear. Find out everything there is about the field you are interested in. You will notice that if you are prepared, you will be self-confident. The more prepared you are, the more confident you’ll feel

.




Learn


how to set practical goals.

 First, define a small goal and achieve it. Many people realize the mistake of setting unrealistic high goals, and when they fail, they lose confidence. Rather, set smaller, more achievable goals. Then achieve it - how will this make you feel? Set another realistic goal and accomplish that. The more you will achieve regular small goals, the better you’ll get, and the better your confidence will be. Before long, you’ll be on your way achieving bigger, but still realistic goals.




Trust in your capabilities.

 There is a good deal more to be self-confident than just the way you look. The psychological effect of trusting yourself has unending positive effects, no matter how much other people attempt to pull you back. Everyone is good at some things and not so well at others. If you fall short on something, keep trust in your own abilities. You might get it right the next time.  When you trust them, it will lead to self-confidence. But you must do your part. Do extra effort. Take on a project you would normally reject. Practice to trust you and soon it will become second nature.




Show your gratitude


.

 Create a list of all the things in your life you are thankful for and another list of all the things you are proud of accomplishing. What are the things that make your personality great? (Responsibility, sense of humour, compassion, listening skills, and so on.) Whenever your self-confidence takes a dip, view this list and be inspired all over again

.




Keep


your word to yourself and others.

 Holding on to your word is one of the most overlooked ways to boost your self-confidence. Every arrangement you make with other people is a commitment to yourself, and if you do not follow through on it, your brain will learn to not trust yourself.




It is


important to accept your emotions

.  After you’ve accepted them, process them. Emotions associated with low self-confidence are feelings like:


- nervousness,


- anxiety,


- tension,


- and fear.


Take on these emotions and do not fight them. Acceptance means to know your beliefs and see them for what they are. 


Be aware that they won't last. Say to yourself, “It’s natural and ok to be stressed or anxious." 


Many people try to get rid of their emotions by means such as using drugs or alcohol. This will not resolve the problem. It will just cause things to become worse.




Embracing the unknown


.

 You will never be capable of controlling what happens in your life. Even confident people lose their jobs, not only the ones that are not so sure. Remember that you are not responsible for what happens in your life. There are no guarantees, though. We will never know for sure what the future will prevail. Life is created moment-by-moment, day-by-day. There are external factors too. If you remove this weight off your shoulders, it’s easier to be confident in yourself.




Evacuate all reminders of your negativity

. Do not 

spend time on things that can make you negative about yourself again. Sit down, and think about all the things that get you down, and get rid of it. It may be time for a life detox, to declutter what's preventing you from being happy and positive.




Take risks


.

 The reason that so many people never fulfill their potential is not a lack of opportunity, but too little self-confidence. Your self-confidence will not be increased by staying comfy! Make being uncomfortable your friend - take risks. These risks will build your self-confidence. Act, despite fear, and don’t over-think a risk. Just do it!




Identify your talents.

 Discover the things that you are good at, which you also enjoy, and then focus on it. Express yourself and grow your interest in the subject. Adding a variety of interests to your life will increase your confidence and would be a therapeutic effect. (More on how to find your passions in the next chapter.) What can you do to be more competent in these interests? How will you achieve that? Be committed to doing research, and practice every day. Just a little at a time. The more you practice, the more your confidence will be increased




Know


what your life values are, and live by them

. What are the values that are most significant to you? Be aware of these things to make certain there is a direction in your life. A Directionless life is a life without confidence. Practice self-reflection and think about whether you live these values, or do you perhaps only believe in them but not live by them

?




Learn to receive praise.

 Accept compliments from others with grace. Many people with low self-esteem do not recognize how to accept compliments. (They assume that the person complimenting them is lying.) When you are praised for something you did well, don’t talk yourself out of conceiving it. Respond with a positive thank you and smile. Twist it into self-confidence. You performed a fantastic job, and it means you can do it again. It’s ok to admit that you are proud of something you did well.




Look


at the mirror and practice smiling

. According to studies, the expressions on your face can encourage your brain to intensify certain emotions. Our subconscious is susceptible to things we say out loud. When we combine saying positive statements with looking ourselves in the eye, it has an enormous effect in our minds. By looking in the mirror and smiling every day, you might be happier. Which will result in increased confidence in the long run.




Quit comparing yourself to others.

 It doesn't matter how hard you try, you cannot be someone else. Their past differs totally from yours, their everyday life is different, and how they are, is a lot different from how they are portraying it on social media. Do not waste your valuable energy on attempting to be something or someone you are not. To compare yourself to others is a direct recipe for failure and feelings of not being good enough - this will push away your confidence. Rather, shift your attention back to yourself, your goals, and your own spirit. Soon you will experience an increase in self-confidence

.




Identify,


write, and then make a move away from your bad habits.

 Begin small, like drink more water, quit smoking, eat less sugar, cut out too much coffee or whatever you identified on your list. Doing something that is in your reach. Do it for a week, and then two. When you’ve accomplished it, stretch it to a month. You will experience how your confidence grows.




Practice confidence.

 Confidence, as most things in life, will improve with practice. As soon as you discover self-doubting thoughts, replace your thoughts with positive ones. Ask yourself what a confident person would do in the particular situation and just do it. How do you see yourself? How would you like to be in 5 years? Change the picture of who you expect to be to how you want to be. Set low, realistic goals you’ll be able to achieve. Little by little, you’ll feel more hopeful.








Self-Confidence is a state of mind. If you are confident, you will have self-worth and you know that you are capable of success.










We are

 unique individuals with different goals and dreams that can be reached if we let ourselves grow and if we are prepared to learn from our mistakes. Everyone owns an inside voice that leads them through life. Do not be prevented by your self-imposed limitations to pursue your inner voice and reach your true potential.















Self-Confidence From Within












I



t goes without saying that those confident individuals can bear themselves better than those who have lower sense of the "self". They are the achievers, the people of the limelight, the center of the society. They walk straight, speak their meanings very well and influence people, both subtly and obviously. In short, they are those who care recognizable even from afar.


Sometimes, self-confident people are very much loved by the society. It is maybe due to their charisma or they are, by nature very amiable. However, there are those self-confident individuals who, just by leaving makes the room lighter.














These are two very dissimilar display of self-confidence. One, destroys a person's credibility and the other intensifies his personality. And obviously, you would not want the consequences of being too confident of yourself that the people no longer view you as effective, instead they see you as annoyance to their daily affairs. 


Self-confidence comes from within. Outside stimulation may help but it would all still boil down to knowing yourself and using that knowledge to gain confidence.


To get self-confidence, you must realize that your limitations must not limit you and your attributes must not destroy you. Instead, use all these factors to develop a personality that would be productive for you and all those that surround you.


"Know thyself!", says the Oracle at Delphi. Though this might have been said thousands of years ago, it is undeniably true that we still can use the wisdom it says. 


Know yourself and get confidence. Recognize though 

that knowledge comes nowhere but inside you. Thus, you have to accept the reality that unless you embrace you flaws and perfection, the demons of low self-confidence would stay forever lingering in your being.


There is a great risk in knowing too much of yourself though if your foundations of self-control is not much too developed. You would be exposed to your imperfections and since control is not yet yours, it is possible that you will be eaten by your own flows. This condition is closely intertwined with thought rumination wherein you seem to go around in your circle of thoughts about your losses and failures regardless of your achievements.


Another danger of having no control of yourself while trying to get self-confidence is that you might get too confident that you would forget the real value of having the sense of self. As we have mentioned earlier, over confidence is just as dangerous as having no confidence at all. This would send you back to failures or worse to eventual downfall.


Knowing yourself is one factor that may either be dangerous or productive. Self-awareness often times help people realize how wonderful their creation was. They learn to give worth to their capacities and attributes that are obviously as special as those that may be found with other people. We are all unique and that is a fact.


Our marks of unique can be seen through closely looking at our capabilities and our incapacities. Our uniqueness is manifested on the natural gifts that add to our greater self-value. Our uniqueness can be seen though our potentials that we may either ignore or maximize at will. 


All these are truths that would stay hidden to you unless you have learned to contemplate on your being and be aware of who you truly are.















The Last Word–Encourage Yourself














It helps to have a shoulder to lean on, but whether you get support from family and friends or not, you should be accustomed to the know-how helping yourself to keep going.










The lifestyle change

 should occur from our inside. Negative thoughts drain us of energy, leading to an unhappy life. Positive thoughts lead to magnificent good outcomes and life success.














If we are unhappy from the inside, it will be reflected on the outside. If we are afraid of life, if we have guilt, or feelings of low self-confidence, or even if we dislike ourselves on the inside, then our outside life will always display our unhappiness, every day of our lives. Without exception.


If we are unhappy and insecure on the inside, then we are broadcasting out negativity on the outside. To change how the world perceives us, we must change from the inside first




Don't take

 on the victim role. You create your own life, take responsibility. Remember, your thoughts are the foundation where you will build your future. It is within your reach to make a change.


You must settle your pain, anger, fear, and all negativity from within. You understand that you need to take responsibility for your own feelings, actions, and mistakes. You must learn lessons from where you went wrong and build 

the corrections to ensure that it won't happen again and again.


We must work on improving ourselves as human beings every day and learn to alter our thoughts. To live longer is only one advantage of a more positive means of thinking. A Positive outlook can influence more than just your lifetime and a great mood. People who are optimistic are much healthier, are more confident, and more committed to their goals. they are also more successful in achieving their goals. Thus, in a nutshell, be positive and be more satisfied with your life.


All negative thinking is fear-based.  This can become very dangerous if it goes on day-after-day.  Stress is then produced which damages the body and mind. This results in disease, illness, and depression. Depression, in fact, manifests in pessimistic thoughts long before it creates any other symptom. This is why you should realize how critical the quality of your thoughts are. Think correctly as this prevent low confidence, depression, disease, and more negative things. We cannot always control how we feel, but we can control how we react.


Negative thoughts drain you of energy and restrain you from living in the moment. The more you allow your negative thoughts, the more dangerous they become. One little negative thought can turn into a gigantic snowball. Choose your thoughts. A Slight positive thought has the same effect - growing into a magnificent good outcome!








Choose your words and thoughts, have good and positive intentions. Be attentive to what you are stating to yourself and others, and what you are asking about life every day.








Condition your mind this way to take authority over 

your thought process. Change a perceived reality through positive statements. Positive thinking is to choose positive emotions and apply them. This method creates a better outlook on life. The brain generates reality in the same way as it processes incoming information.  What you believe will come to the surface. Good things, or bad, which will change the direction of your life.


When you are in what appears to be a negative situation, try to find the positive in those situations, it doesn't matter how small it is. Be on the lookout for what might be good and helpful in every situation in life.




Here are

 Six ways you may implement to overcome negative thinking:


1) Hold on to your faith in God. Faith is the only way we can withstand the worst unexpected events in our lives, even if we don’t understand it ourselves, keeping us optimistic.


2) Stop thinking in extremes: Do not guess about the future in terms of dramatic disasters and failures. Accept that most of life comprises gray areas as well; it is not always black or white.


3) Avoid the snowball effect: If you’re having negative thoughts, don’t nurture them, don’t grow them bigger and over generalize them, but instead, concentrate on how you should deal with these new circumstances in your life.


4) Don’t minimize the positivity. Negative thoughts will stop you from experiencing the positive ones. Do not minimize your successes! Remember that setbacks are temporary.


5) Focus outwards: By adding positivity to another person’s life, you too can set out to be better and more optimistic again. Be kind, give compliments, and be there.


6) Write your positive affirmations, read it.


After you read it, you should say it

.


When you articulate it, you hear it.


When you hear it, you trust it.


When you believe it, circumstances change.


Don't be fixed in negative beliefs about yourself. This will act as chains holding you back from accomplishing the life you want. We are our own greatest enemy. From the time we were children, we were programmed by words that were spoken to us and experiences that happened to us. The words people said and experiences we had were stored in our memory and our mind is making conclusions about what we think we can do and cannot do. This results in a lot of negative roles that become our life barrier which forms our identity. You may not even be aware that you have such self-limiting beliefs, but they are inside.




Here are

 a few examples of negative fixed false beliefs, many people have:


Money: "you need to work hard towards financial success,"


Time: "It's too late to start" – You’re never too old to start with something new!


Mind: "I am not intelligent enough."


Social: "I cannot make friends."


Confidence: "I am not good enough for this new task. I will never make it."




If you suffer

 from one or more of these false beliefs, it’s time to make a change. Get rid of negativity. If you can notice these false beliefs, you will modify them. And by that, change your reality and quality of life. Take back control of 

your life. Right now! Shatter these beliefs and take positive action today.








"The future lies before you, like paths of pure snow. Be careful how you tread it, for every step will show." Author Unknown










Remember,

 self-confidence comes from within. Outside stimulation may help but it would all still boil down to knowing yourself and using that knowledge to gain confidence.




To get self-confidence,

 you must realize that your limitations must not limit you and your attributes must not destroy you. Instead, use all these factors to develop a personality that would be productive for you and all those that surround you.




"Know thyself!",

 says the Oracle at Delphi. Though this might have been said thousands of years ago, it is undeniably true that we still can use the wisdom it says. 




Know yourself and get confidence.

 Recognize though that knowledge comes nowhere but inside you. Thus, you have to accept the reality that unless you embrace you flaws and perfection, the demons of low self-confidence would stay forever lingering in your being

.




There is

 a great risk in knowing too much of yourself though if your foundations of self-control is not much too developed. You would be exposed to your imperfections and since control is not yet yours, it is possible that you will be eaten by your own flows. This condition is closely intertwined with thought rumination wherein you seem to go around in your circle of thoughts about your losses and failures regardless of your achievements.




Another danger

 of having no control of yourself while trying to get self-confidence is that you might get too confident that you would forget the real value of having the sense of self. As we have mentioned earlier, over confidence is just as dangerous as having no confidence at all. This would send you back to failures or worse to eventual downfall.




Knowing

 yourself is one factor that may either be dangerous or productive. Self-awareness often times help people realize how wonderful their creation was. They learn to give worth to their capacities and attributes that are obviously as special as those that may be found with other people. We are all unique and that is a fact. Our marks of unique can be seen through closely looking at our capabilities and our incapacities. Our uniqueness is manifested on the natural gifts that add to our greater self-value. Our uniqueness can be seen though our potentials that we may either ignore or maximize at will. 






All these are truths that would stay hidden to you unless you have learned to contemplate on your being and be aware of who you truly are.

















Thank You For Reading








Thank you

 for reading 
POWERFUL CONFIDENCE.




I hope it meant something to you.


If you would like to be updated when I have a new book, you can join my 
reader’s club

 or sign up at 
http://www.lifesuccessblog.com

, follow me on 
Twitter

, or like my 
Facebook

 page.




Reviews help readers

 to find books they might like. Please consider leaving a review for 
POWERFUL CONFIDENCE

. Your review will be appreciated.


The next book in the 
Well-Being Series is ROARING COURAGE which


you may download for FREE































Also by Annalie Coetzer










MORE BOOKS BY THIS AUTHOR











