











Introduction























Background Information for The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss


About Tim Ferriss:


Tim Ferriss is the author of 
The 4-Hour Workweek
, a New York Times bestseller that incorporates the Pareto Principle and Parkinson’s Law into a lifestyle of reduced working hours and more personal free time.


After graduating from Princeton University, where he earned a degree in East Asian Studies, Tim started his first business at age 23, selling nutritional supplements.


Since selling his business, Tim has earned a spot in the Guinness Book Of World Records for achieving the most tango spins in one minute, and now hosts his own program on the History Channel. He resides in the San Francisco Bay Area, where he is an angel investor.


Tim’s second book, 
The 4-Hour Body
, was published by Crown Archetype in 2010 and in 2011 Tim announced he would publish a third book, 
The 4-Hour Chef
. The book is being released by Amazon.com and is expected to become available for purchase in April 2012.


About The Book


The 4-Hour Workweek
 is Tim Ferriss’ first book. Detailing his personal experiences of success and failures in ‘lifestyle design,’ the book provides readers with a clear road map on how to outsource mundane work, create smooth income streams, and ultimately retain more free time.


The author believes that pursuing dreams and goals now is more important than deferring them until after retirement, and his book promotes a variety of lifestyle design options that give readers exciting alternatives to the ordinary 9-5 routine.


The 4-Hour Workweek
 was released in 2007 and has since sold millions of copies. The book has been translated into 35 languages.


In 2009, an extended and updated version of 
The 4-Hour Workweek
 was released, which included 100 additional pages chronicling real world examples of how people have benefited by adhering to the concepts presented in his book.











Important People in The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss


Tim Ferriss:
 
As author of The 4-Hour Workweek, Tim uses his personal experience with lifestyle design to give readers a road map to more career choices and income streams. Tim uses his experiences — a mixture of successes and failures — to create a new way to look at life.


Vilfredo Pareto:
 An economist 
and philosopher, Pareto discovered that in virtually
 
every aspect of life (including the business world),
 
20% of the source caused 80% of the results. The remaining 80% created just 20% of the results. Focusing on the top 20% decreases time spent resolving problems caused by the less productive 80%.


Cyril Northcote Parkinson:
 
Creator of the Parkinson’s Law, which states that the size of a task will grow
 
parallel
 
to the time allotted to complete it. Assign less time to get a job done and the result will be accomplished with less stress and time.


Douglas Price:
 
As a lifestyle designer who shares many of the same beliefs as Tim Ferriss, Douglas consistently keeps Tim on target when Tim loses sight of the goals he has set for himself. He continually uses the image of a corpulent man in a red sports car as a mechanism to keep Tim on track.


Sherwood:
 
A
n importer of French shirts, Sherwood is a prime example of how product testing can go right for a business seeking streamlined operations and a mobile lifestyle. He successfully completes the Automation steps outlined in the book, and is able to treat himself to a trip to Germany — the first of many mini-retirements.









Key Terms in The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss


DEAL (Definition, Elimination, Automation, Liberation):
 
By utilizing this system of steps, the reader can identify how his current life situation displeases him, reduce his dependence on mass media and electronics, find a business that can be set on auto-pilot, and then choose to live where he likes, pursuing dreams and activities now.


Lifestyle Design:
 
Implementing the four terms of DEAL, the reader can radically change how he looks at his life, how he spends his time, and how he earns and manages money.


Deferrers:
 
These are
 
people who follow set career paths, working full-time, often unhappy positions that require long hours. This traditional career path pushes back the enjoyment of life until after retirement.


New Rich:
 
Those who understand there are creative ways to earn a living, and who prefer mini-retirements now to enjoy life rather than putting it off until achieving traditional retirement.


Eustress:
 
“Good” stress that pushes you towards your goals through positive pressure, and that that results in the achievement of
 
your dream. It is an antonym of “distress.”


Adventure Deficit Disorder:
 
Without a clear idea of what excites you, life can pass by without dreams being accomplished. Define what excites you and go for it.


Dreamline:
 
A list of dreams you want to achieve in a set period of time, in the next six to twelve months, for example. Detailing the costs and steps involved, you can assemble a step-by-step plan.


Pareto Principle:
 
80% of any business clientele is responsible for only 20% of it’s profit, while only 20% produces a staggering 80% of the revenue. Avoid wasting time on the 80% that is distracting you from the important 20%.


Parkinson’s Law:
 
Whenever a task is assigned a specified length of time to complete, the amount of time and effort will increase in direct proportion to the larger amount of time allotted.


The Puppy Dog Principle:
 
When offering a product, a free, no-risk trial will result in more closed sales than a product sold without a generous return policy.


Virtual Assistant (VA):
 
Mundane tasks can eat up large amounts of free time. Outsourcing them to a virtual assistant, commonly referred to as a VA, can increase free time to achieve goals.


Muse:
 
A nickname given to a business that is self automated to reduce time running it, resulting in sufficient revenue to become location independent.


Mini-retirement:
 
Rather than taking a big trip or extended vacation after reaching the traditional retirement age, mini-retirements are used by the New Rich as a way to relax and recharge now, rather than after a grueling career in the working world.


W4W:
 “Work for Work” 
refers to self-creating issues and problems into larger entities that can either be handled by someone else or ignored.









DEAL: The Main Takeaway for The 4-Hour Workweek


By following the four components of DEAL (Definition, Elimination, Automation and Liberation) readers take innovative steps that can lead them to a life of increased job satisfaction and prosperity.


Definition


The career path of the 9-5 workweek and retirement at age 62 is changing. Rather than following the prescribed path, which delays achieving dreams and desires to much later in life,
 
The 4-Hour Workweek
 
declares that there is a better way to live.


Taking a hard look at life can be a painful experience. Only after we realize and acknowledge our unhappiness, can we make positive changes. Continuing to play the game that has been the source of this unhappiness has to stop. Money should never be the only goal in life, nor should reaching a fixed level of financial security.


Fear is the most important emotion we need to conquer in order to create a new life.
 
Dreamlines
 
define goals we want to achieve because we can see in clear financial terms and steps what is necessary to achieve these dreams, eliminating fear and resulting in action.


Elimination


Mass media has crept into our lives to the point where we are constantly flooded by a tsunami of email, Instant Messaging, text messages, and cell phone calls, to the point where our quality of life is negatively impacted. Much of this information is of no use to us and unfortunately in today’s business environment, the amount of information is growing all the time.


Ferriss recommends starting with a 30 day information ‘fast.’ This involves cutting out all exposure to online news and print media, television, and non-fiction books, to begin the process of cutting the cord with mass media, which tends to clog our schedules and stifle our productivity.


By relying on music, an hour of reading before bedtime, and the content of
 
The 4-Hour Workweek
, readers can change the way they are exposed to media and subsequently increase life satisfaction.


Automation


Most businesses operate with archaic processes
 
that eat up increasing amounts of time.
 
Owners become ensnared in customer service
 
and logistical nightmares that can make entrepreneurs call into question their decision to start a business in the first place.


Through the trend of outsourcing a company’s operations, the marketplace is now flooded with companies offering to reduce costs for telephone services, shipping and handling and more. And these savings are not out of reach, even if your business is not a multinational conglomerate.


By using reputable credit card processing organizations
, trusted fullfillment companies and professional phone answering services, it is possible to eliminate the time consuming tasks that accompany many businesses. Handing over customer service issues, telephone inquiries, and payment processing reduces headaches and increases your company’s bottom line.


It is crucial to move incrementally towards complete Automation in order to achieve the next step, Liberation.


Liberation


The goal of lifestyle design is to free oneself from the rigid structure of the the 9-5 work day.


While Deferrers continue to adhere to this schedule, the New Rich have found a better way: they have carved out a life that breaks the rules without breaking the bank; in fact, they often laugh all the way to the bank with the profit they reap from shrewd products they sell.


Liberation can come in many forms. It can simply translate into more time spent at home with family. It can also mean mini-retirements in international locations. Or, it can mean permanent foreign travel around the world, where belongings are sold, apartments and houses given up or sold, and home becomes the open road.


Tim
 
Ferriss,
 
the author of the book, leaves “Liberation” open to the reader’s interpretation.









Overall Summary for The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss


The 4-Hour Workweek
, written by Tim Ferriss, is a bestselling book that offers ways to design a lifestyle that breaks the mold of the 9-5 day, 40-hour workweek. With job satisfaction at an all-time low and information overload stretching Americans toward burnout, Ferriss’ personal experience in a stressful career caused him to question and change how he looked at his time management and income generation.


His business, BrainQUICKEN, became his ‘muse,’ the vehicle for his lifestyle design ideas. Through a series of successes and failures, Ferriss eventually created a life that made him location-independent, financially successful, and a Guinness Book of Records holder in tango spins.


The principles of ‘DEAL’ (Definition, Elimination, Automation and Liberation), provide readers with ways to radically change their career focus and income stream.
 
From new approaches to office interaction, to smarter consumption of technology, to radical increases in his productivity and more, Ferriss always advises to begin with the end in mind. Whether it be sailing around the world or spending more time with grandkids, keeping the end in mind is a powerful incentive to shape the steps necessary to reach it.


By taking advantage of advancements in technology and outsourcing, readers can create businesses that run themselves. By hiring companies to handle time consuming customer service issues, these businesses can earn thousands of dollars per hour and grow to require virtually no expensive overhead to operate.


In the free time created by these businesses, an array of choices open up: from mini-retirements to complete location independence, readers can pursue dreams that the traditional work structure doesn’t allow.
 
These dreams may include long-term travel, in-country language instruction, increased time spent with family, more foc
us on hobbies and the pursuit of dream jobs.


Throughout his book, Ferriss dispels fears relating to loss of career momentum, financial stability and concerns about the safety of overseas travel, insisting the steps he takes are achievable by all.


By making readers think more carefully about how they manage their time and income, the ideas outlined in The 4-Hour Workweek can become a pathway to a more pleasurable life.















Chapter Summaries: Step 1: D IS FOR DEFINITION





















The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 1: Cautions and Comparisons


“The blind quest for cash is a fool’s errand”


Many burned-out and stressed-out career types are seeking new ways to earn money and pursue their dreams at the same time. By continuing down their current career path, they remain
 
Deferrers
, but for those who strive to make shrewd adjustments to their careers and income flows, they join what has become known as the
 
New Rich.


How are the
 
Deferrers
 
and the
 
New Rich
 
defined?


The
 
Deferrers
 
are those who follow the herd, putting off dreams and desires until it is socially acceptable to pursue them (i.e. after they reach retirement age). They follow the path of the majority, believing that travel and other luxury pursuits are not to be enjoyed mid-life, because career and work should take up the bulk of their time.


The
 
New Rich
 
define themselves through their distinct goals and values, creating their own unique lives rather than following a prescribed career path. They know a more diverse array of income earning options exist, and they make full use of technology to create more free time. Smart career and financial decisions grant the
 
New Rich
 
more freedom to pursue passions now, rather than later.


Sometimes the differences between these two groups are slight, but profound. For example, rather than having a goal to work for themselves, which is common among
 
Deferrers
, the
 
New Rich
 
aspire to have work completed by others.


The
 
New Rich
 
desire reduced clutter and
 
more time,
 
while the
 
Deferrers
 
simply desire more of everything. They also aspire to be the boss, and never the employee, while the
 
New Rich
 
want to be the owner.


The
 
New Rich
 
also know that a change geographic location can sometimes stretch money much further than in a home country. Living like a millionaire has nothing to do with actually being one. This concept is explained in this excerpt from page 24:


“Money is multiplied in practical value depending on the number of W’s you control in your life: what you do, when you do it, where you do it, and with whom you do it. I call this the freedom multiplier.”


True power comes from this ability to choose. It is possible to earn more money in less time than you are spending now to obtain it,
 
IF
 
you are willing to learn how to restructure your life.


When comparing the lifestyle output of a member of the
 
New Rich,
 
who earns $40,000 per year in just a quarter of the time spent by a member of the
 
Deferrers
, 
whose earnings reach $500,000, the annual salary of the
 
New Rich
 
can far outweigh the latter in terms of freedom to pursue activities. This level of freedom would be impossible to achieve with an 80 hour workweek.


To make changes in your life that align you with the
 
New Rich
, it is essential to retire the common beliefs relating to success. I
n fact, it is necessary to drop the current definitions concerning work rules in general and adopt a whole new attitude to how you mold your work and career choices.


The experiences of two members of the
 
New Rich
 
prove that lateral options always exist. For
 
Dale Begg-Smith,
 
it was achieving his dream of winning an Olympic Gold medal
 
while
 
simultaneously
 
re-prioritizing his business workload. Once he balanced work and his passion for skiing, he kept both in perfect balance. His
 
face now graces an Australian stamp.


For Julie, her husband Marc, and their three sons, it was the decision to take off on an around the world sailing adventure that taught them a fixed amount of money in the bank was never going to bring them as much happiness as their new floating home.
 
The changes Julie saw in her family dynamics – from improved social interaction between her sons to an increased interest in reading – were an amazing result of this change in lifestyle.


There are many ways you can join the ranks of the
 
New Rich
, and changing the way you look at work, income and success is the first step to making the adjustments necessary to increase your enjoyment of life.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 2: Rules That Change The Rules


“Don’t follow a model that doesn’t work. If the recipe sucks, it doesn’t matter how good a cook you are.”


In order to beat the game, it is essential to stop playing it. When it’s more fun and successful than the
 
status quo
, being different is the perfect way to join the
 
New Rich
.


There are ten basic rules to learn that will help you focus on making the transition to the
 
New Rich
:


1. The worst insurance is retirement, because by the time you arrive, your savings will be worth much less than you thought. The purpose of your life should never be just about retirement.


2. Taking mini-retirements throughout life gives the
 
New Rich
 
energy to be more productive. Taking short breaks helps to re-invigorate your passions, something the traditional 40 hour workweek can’t provide.


3. No matter the setting, being busy is never as important as being productive. Spending less time accomplishing more is not laziness.


4. No time is better to start than right now. There is never a perfect moment to quit your job or start that business.


5. It’s better to ask forgiveness for breaking the rules than asking for permission, because getting permission can take too long. Become good at saying sorry.


6. Always focus on your strengths, and never waste time turning your weaknesses into strengths. Your strengths are where your passions lie.


7. Too much of anything can be detrimental, idle time in particular. Balance is key to a thriving life.


8. The pursuit of more money is never the solution. Never allow the pursuit of it to postpone changes you want to make in your life


9. Relative income is always more than absolute income. Spending less time to earn more translates into time off to pursue your passion.


10. Distress, experienced through tension with your boss and work is damaging to your self-esteem and productivity. The solution is eustress, explained in this definition found on page 37:


“Eustress, on the other hand, is a word most of you have never heard of. Eu-, a Greek prefix for “healthy,” is used in the same sense as the word euphoria. Role models who push us to exceed our limits, physical training that removes our spare tires, and risks that expand our sphere of comfortable action are all examples of eustress – stress that is healthful and the stimulus for growth.”


If we avoid all forms of positive and constructive criticism, we fail. The
 
New Rich
 
know that dreams are achieved by removing distress from their lives and replacing them with eustress
.


As you take stock of your own life experience, it is essential to look at how being “responsible” and “realistic” have held you back in life. Think about the dreams that will be postponed should you continue as you are living now for the next one to two decades.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 3: Dodging Bullets


“Fear itself is quite fear-inducing.”


Hans Keeling had made with himself: should he spent more than three nights sleeping under his desk in order to complete his work as a lawyer, he would quit. And immediately after returning from a vacation in Brazil he did just that.


Now, after relocating from the US, he leads surf tours in Southern Brazil, where he is often asked how he got to be so lucky. When he hears clients say they could never make the leap, he simply shakes his head.


There is nothing quite as powerful as pessimism. It is a damp mood that, along with insecurity and fear, keeps most people firmly placed amongst the
 
Deferrers
.


It is only by defining your fears that you can work towards conquering and overcoming them to join the
 
New Rich
. What is your worst nightmare? By mapping out your deepest, darkest fears, whether they regard your career, love life, family or other subject, you can then see that even if one or more were to come true, it would not mean the end of the world.


In fact, even if your worst nightmare did come true, you would have the strength and resolve to fix it, make a change or take another path. You have more strength than you are aware of:


“I realized that on a scale of 1-10, 1 being nothing and 10 being permanently life-changing, my so-called worst-case scenario might have a
 
temporary
 
impact of a 3 or 4.” (Page 42)


For example, if your business went bankrupt, would you be able to pick up the pieces? Of course. If you were sued, would you survive? Or course there would be issues, but neither your life, your company, nor your career would have ended. Conquering your fear is simply laying it out in simple terms, and once you have done so it never looks quite as bad as you thought it would.


Optimistic denial keeps most people
 
too anesthetized with the hope that things are on the verge of getting better. Often this is simply an excuse for taking no action at all, a sort of paralysis that can continue for so long it becomes a fossilized behavior.


Endless rationalization never provides an avenue for transformation in life. Spend several minutes taking a closer look at these seven questions. Answering them with total honestly will help dispel your fears and ease you into the place where making lifestyle changes will occur:


1. Write down your worst nightmare in as much detail as you can


2. How could you repair the issues caused by this scenario coming true?


3. On a scale of 1-10, how good would the most likely situations be to your character?


4. What financial steps would you take if you lost your job right now?


5. What has fear delayed you from doing?


6. How high is the price you are paying for not realizing your dreams?


7. Are you waiting for a better time than right now to make changes?


In order to join the
 
New Rich
 
it is essential to leave old thoughts and beliefs behind; letting go of fear is the most important step.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 4: System Reset


“Remember boredom is the enemy, not some abstract failure.”


Fear and insecurity are what keep the majority of people in the narrow pathways of their lives. Being
 
realistic
 
is another trap that prevents lasting change and the realization of dreams.


When it comes to choosing your goals, aim high; mediocre goals will only warrant mediocre effort. Competition is always the fiercest among the average, and you will want to rise above mediocrity if you aim to create the life you want.


Should you choose to create the world’s largest computer and gadget company, or to set up a one man computer repair business in a small town? Guess which dream will attract more passion, more lofty ideas, and more financial rewards.


When it comes to asking why you would choose a specific dream, the word “
happiness”
 
falls short of the reason: it is simply too easy to achieve happiness with a day at the beach or a nice meal at a favorite restaurant.
 
Happiness
 
is just too broad of a term to focus your goals upon because it is too easily attainable through short-term activities.


“E
xcitement”
 
is a much better goal to strive toward. As a synonym for bliss,
 
excitement
 
is the fuel for pursuing the activities that motivate you to wake up each morning and leap out of bed.


Excitement’s
 
total opposite is
 
boredom.
 
As the antonym to
 
excitement,
 
this is what characterizes the majority of people’s lives, and the inability to break free from
 
boredom
 
is what traps people in mundane careers.


Questions And Actions


Dreamlining,
 
as described on page 53:


“There is a process I have used, and still use, to reignite life or correct the course…..it is the same process used by the most impressive NR I have met around the world: dreamlining. Dreamlining is so named because it applies timelines to what most would consider dreams.”


Create a timeline for the next six months and the next twelve months. What five things would you put on this list – having, being and doing (1, 2, 3)?


1.
Having


A new wardrobe from your favorite designer


A new set of furniture


2. Being


Able to converse with a German for 10 minutes


Able to fly a light aircraft


3. Doing


Learn to windsurf


Reach the intermediate level of yoga


Once you have made a list for these three topics, make another list of costs for each topic and label those as A, B and C. Some may be free, for example if you have a current membership at a gym and wish to tone your abs, it may simply be spending more time at the gym. If you desire to learn German, then list the cost of German classes.


A: Having


$3,600 (new sofa set and a week’s worth of new clothes)


B: Being


$2,500 (private German lessons and flying lessons)


C: Doing


$600 (private windsurfer lessons, and 6 months of group yoga classes)


Add up A, B and C. Then multiply your monthly expenses by 1.3 and add that amount to A, B and C. Divide this amount by 30 to get your TDI (Total Daily Income). This will be the amount you will need to each day to realize these dreams.


Total of A, B and C = $6,700


Total monthly expenses x 1.3 = $2,100


Total = $8,800


TDI = $293.33


Once you have your TDI, you can then list tasks that you need to do now, tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow to achieve these goals.


Today


Buy yoga mat at the gym


Call local airport to confirm placement in flying course


Shop online for windsurf gear


Call German tutor you met at a party last month


Visit local showroom for the latest sofas


Shop online for your new wardrobe


Tomorrow


Attend first yoga class


Attend windsurf club’s monthly meeting


Get eye exam for pilots license


Schedule German class for the weekend


Give away old clothes


Post your current furniture to sell online


The Day After


Pick up windsurf equipment


Try on clothes at your favorite designers store downtown


Buy German dictionary


Download pilot license textbook


Schedule delivery of new furniture


The most important thing is to determine three steps that are necessary to achieving these goals. This will keep you motivated and moving forward. Remember, if they are too complex, simplify the goals and adjust the steps as necessary.


Comfort Challenge


Train yourself out of your comfort zone by trying new things, particularly in social situations, where many of us carry unwritten rules and restrictions imposed on us by our society.


Eye contact varies from culture to culture, and in most western societies, it is considered forward to make eye contact with a stranger, particularly if you are close – like riding on the subway or standing in line at the grocery store.


Make eye contact with perfect strangers as they walk towards you, remembering to blink; no one wants to be mistaken for having a mental condition. You can also try this while listening to a friend in conversation. Whatever the situation, hold eye contact until they look away. Time how long you can hold it and aim to stretch it for as long as you can.


Breaking through barriers and stepping out of comfort zones is what it takes to join the
 
New Rich
, because experience in pushing your personal boundaries will soon be applied in all areas of your life.















Chapter Summaries: Step 2: E IS FOR ELIMINATION





















The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 5: The End of Time Management


“What you do is infinitely more important than how you do it.”


The current model for time management is hopelessly inefficient and actually works against joining the
 
New Rich.
 
Staying busy is never an adequate excuse to begin prioritizing tasks to reach your goals.


By redefining productivity as achieving more in a shorter amount of time, freeing oneself from his current work structure is the most important goal. No boss will allow an employee to work remotely until the employee can demonstrate he is capable of working efficiently outside of the office setting. The
 
Pareto Principle
 
is a valuable tool to assist with this transition.


The Pareto Principle


The Italian economist
 
Vilfredo Pareto
 
discovered an astonishing fact regarding income and business: 80% of wealth and business revenue was being created by just 20% of the population.


With only 20% of business revenue created by the remaining 80%, it’s time to fire the 80% of your customers who tie up your time with complaints, foot dragging and other issues that frustrate you and drag down your morale.


By focusing on the 20% that bring in the bulk of your revenue, your productivity can rocket up to five times that of what you currently produce. Eliminating the 80% that is causing your operation to be inefficient can seem like a drastic move, but re-prioritizing your focus away from these clients who can be responsible for virtually all of your complaints and problems, dropping them can come as an enormous relief.


This 80/20 rule can be applied to any aspect of your business: which 20% of my advertising is bringing in that 80%? Which 20% of your marketing efforts are contributing to that 80% of revenue? Start to take stock and the results in terms of time opening up will at first seem strange; where did all this free time come from? I’m supposed to be working at least 9-5, is what the Deferrers will say. But the
 
New Rich
 
know that results are what matter, not how much time you invested in achieving them.


“Slow down and remember this. Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness – lazy thinking and indiscriminate action.” (Page 73)


Parkinson’s Law


Another important principle to take into account is
 
Parkinson’s Law
, which states that any task will grow in direct proportion to the amount of time assigned to complete it. Should you have a day to write a proposal, or a month, the task will expand in terms of procrastination, delay, headache the longer there is to finish it.


Less is more in terms of design as well as projects, and it is best to assign tight yet achievable deadlines to focus more closely and to free up time. Just because the majority of workers fill a five-day week through a 9-5 schedule does not mean it is against the rules to change this. Learning to break rules is the path to becoming a member of the
 
New Rich.


Questions and Actions


Its time to make two lists: one of things you want to do and things you don’t want to do. Being as honest and detailed will help point out ways you are currently using time inefficiently as well as defining what your core passions are.


To Do


Thinking in drastic terms, what work would you want to do if you had just two hours a day in which to do it?


Imagine if these two hours were stretched per week, what would you want to do?


Not to Do


What things am I doing that feel productive but aren’t?


Do I waste time while multitasking?


Comfort Challenge


Begin to offer suggestions and ideas in situations you followed the crowd. By using simple phrases like, Can I suggest? Or Lets try…. Provide ideas and solutions to friends, family, coworkers and bosses on as many subjects as you can and in as many situations as you find yourself in.


Joining the
 
New Rich
 
is quite simple when your current behaviors are analyzed and broken down. Many people are astounded to learn that 80% of their time is spent earning just 20% of their income, and once they have decided to focus on the 20% that earns the 80%, they have made a sea change in their life.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 6: The Low Information Diet


“Once again, less is more.”


Incorporating
 
Parkinson’s Law
 
and the
 
Pareto Principle
 is 
extremely important to designing a lifestyle of your choosing. However, there are other crucial steps that can be taken to reduce the clutter of modern life and free up more time.


We are surrounded by a myriad of gadgets and communication devices that reduce our quality of life while promising to keep us even more connected. This is especially true in urban centers, where proof of loyalty or productiveness is gauged in connections. Addictions come in many forms, and information addiction is one that affects many workers today.


Cutting the cord to mass information may seem drastic, but take a moment to add up the hours you spend surfing the web while stalking that celebrity or wasting time reading pages and pages of business magazines, and you can clearly see the news you gathered was completely irrelevant to your true goals.


“It is imperative that you learn to ignore or redirect all information and interruption that are irrelevant, unimportant, or unactionable. Most are all three.”


Going on a diet from mass media does not mean all media; business magazines relevant to your line of work or entrepreneurial articles that can help shape the focus of your dreams are acceptable. But even among these periodicals and publications, thin out the ones that are not entirely relevant.


Two Tips On How To Read Twice as Fast


Speed-reading is nothing new, but using visual techniques can increase the speed at which you read documents.


One:
 
Read each line as if it were a photo. Block the text below each line with a ruler or finger and through the decreased distraction from words on other lines you can increase your speed digesting each sentence.


Two:
 
By focusing your eyes on the 3rd word inside each side of the left and right margins, you can save time by reducing eye movement, focusing on the central part of the text.


Questions and Actions


Immediately cut all media out of your daily diet. This means no newspapers or online news websites, no social media of any kind, no television, and no books aside from an hour of pleasure reading just before bedtime. Use this extra time to deepen your knowledge of the
 
Pareto Principle
 
or
 
Parkinson’s Law
, or other steps necessary to join the
 
New Rich.


Comfort Challenge


This challenge builds on the previous one relating to eye contact. No matter if you are single or are in a relationship, approach strangers you find attractive and secure at least two phone numbers. Be sure to use eye contact, and choose a busy public place to overcome the fear of being forward.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 7: Interrupting Interruption and the Art of Refusal


“The bottom line is that you only have the rights you fight for.”


If you are an employee at a regular company, take a closer look at a typical workday. Distractions in the form of office chitchat, meetings, unnecessary memos and more create a quagmire of time waste. Take back your day by identifying the most unproductive elements you face and be bold in your efforts to remove them from your experience:


“Learn to be difficult when it counts. In school as in life, having a reputation for being assertive will help you receive preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time.”


Three core elements cause the majority of time waste in a work environment:
 
time wasters,
time consumers
 
and
 
empowerment failures.


Time Wasters


Any irrelevant form of communication that does not work toward your goals is a time waster. Examples include meetings that prepare for yet another meeting, emails that never answer any crucial questions posed in a previous email, and phone conversations that lead nowhere.


Reducing the number of times you check email each day can radically reduce time wastage. Opening your inbox just twice a day, just before lunch and about an hour before you leave work are optimal to reduce the immediate response to incoming email alerts typical to most office workers.


Before starting, it is important to write an email template for auto responses that explains this new procedure. Write a short message that clearly lays out the times of the day you will be checking email, and a phone number to reach you in an emergency. This may be met with some resistance at first, but once your workmates have gotten used to this system, you may find others will adopt the same approach.


In regards to telephone numbers, two should be established, one for emergencies and the other for everything else. The emergency line should be a cell phone, because your goal is to be remote, and that goal will never be achieved with a landline:


“It is your job to train those around you to be effective and efficient. No one else will do it for you.”


Reducing meetings should be top priority, because nothing eats up time like gatherings that have no set time end point. Gathering the agenda beforehand (via email) will eliminate meetings to plan other meetings, and using the
 
Puppy Dog Principle
 
helps as well: tell your boss that due to work overload, you aren’t able to attend this specific meeting, but that you will meet up afterwards to get the gist from a coworker.
Once you have received approval once, it will be easy to get it again and again.


Time Consumers


Identical tasks that occur at different times yet require the same amount of input can, over time, require a huge amount of time to complete.


A good example is billing: if you sat down and processed a week’s worth of bills in one sitting, you would save time over handling them individually as they come in. The time to open your computer, the software and other applications is done just once rather than seven times or more, increasing focus as well.


Batching in this manner can assist greatly in reducing the volume of time wasting tasks scattered throughout your workday. Phone calls to clients and responses to emails can be batched in this manner, along with other jobs too.


If you consider your time worth $20 per hour, think of how much money you will earn through batching tasks over a month or even a year. If you saved 10 hours per month through batching email communications, this translates into $200.


Should your change in behavior cost sales — perhaps $100 in a single month — you would still be $100 richer than before you started to batch emails. If the cost in terms of sales exceeds the amount of time earned, increase the amount of email batching by a fixed percentage, and keep adjusting until you achieve the perfect balance.


Empowerment Failures


Nothing embodies empowerment failures like customer service. Without a clear level of authority, no one can take responsibility and smooth over issues with customers without grinding to a halt to receive permission.


Set a dollar amount – perhaps $100 – and give your customer service team the authority to fix problems under that amount without approval. Watch how quickly problems vanish under this new system, and the elimination of this micromanagement structure immediately meant workers had more power. Their morale will go up in direct proportion to the number of problems received.


Questions and Actions


Reducing distractions that stretch out your day is paramount to taking back control of your workday.


If meetings can’t be avoided, they should be set to a specific time length; do not feel obligated to stay for the entirety.


Grouping activities and tasks into batches can help streamline your work flow. Use the time saved to work on your
 
dreamlines
 
explained in
 
Chapter 4.


Begin to test autonomy for coworkers and for yourself (If you are an employee) to lessen time wasted waiting for decisions to be approved.


Comfort Challenge


Remember what it felt like as a kid when saying no to adults felt really good? Say ‘no’ as many times as you can (without jeopardizing your job of course). Explaining that ‘now isn’t a good time’ should excuse you from offending people, but take this as far as you can over a 48 hour period.















Chapter Summaries: Step 3: A IS FOR AUTOMATION





















The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 8: Outsourcing Life


“Becoming a member of the NR (New Rich) is not just about working smarter. It’s about building a system to replace yourself.”


One of the biggest trends in the early 21st century has been the
 
growth of the
 
VA
 
or
 
Virtual Assistant (VA)
 
industry.
An army of
 
quasi-secretaries
 
is available 24/7 to research and execute almost any task under the sun, be it sourcing hard to find theatre tickets to calling your credit card company to schedule a payment to simply reconfirming that upcoming dinner reservation.


Why should you get a
 
Virtual Assistant?
 
The answer is simple: by applying
 
Parkinson’s Law
 
to your life – all the boring, time sucking tasks that you hate doing — that clog up your pipeline preventing other more forward thinking goals from being accomplished – can be eliminated from your routine. In short, hiring a
 
VA
 
removes all excuses for putting off joining the
 
New Rich
 
too.


Before you start it’s important to reduce all tasks that are a waste of time, instead of assigning everything from your current workload. If you don’t reduce, then there wont be much savings in time or cost. Only assign tasks that have passed the ‘keep or dump’ check, and always make sure the task is something that consumes enough time to be an annoying distraction.


That being said, be creative in how you dream up tasks. Release your inner Howard Hughes, and go for it. While most tasks will be mundane,
 
VA’s
 
have sourced rare books, confirmed the specific type of Business Class seat on an international airline, and tracked a client’s diet through food purchases.


Here or Abroad, Single or a Team?


The biggest question may not be what to assign, but where: do you want a
 
VA
 
abroad or based in your home country? Cost should never determine the location, because quality can vary tremendously.
 
VA’s
 
in Asia may only be qualified to perform the simplest of tasks, while
 
VA’s
 
in North America can perform almost any task imaginable.


The other question is whether one
 
VA
 
is enough or if you should hire a variety of
 
VA’s
 
with different strengths. Of course you will start off with one, but it can be a good idea to request a different
 
VA
 
to test a broader array of the
 
VA company’s
 
strengths.


Caveats


Credit card fraud may be the biggest concern against using a
 
VA
 
in the first place. With buyer protections in place, almost all credit cards guarantee that illegal purchases are covered.


The bigger issue is with debit cards, which can make it impossible to reverse charges if it falls into the wrong hands. Never use a debit card with any transaction performed with the help of a
 
VA.


Always create a new user login for
 
VA’s
 
who log onto websites for marketing or development purposes. Should their services no longer be needed, disable them immediately.


Most major
 
VA
 
companies do background checks on their employers and ban the removal of documents from their offices along with other security measures. Always research the
 
VA
 
company carefully, and if in doubt, use a US based firm; stringent privacy laws prevent any offenses from going unpunished.


Common Pitfalls


It may take time to become used to commanding others and there will certainly be a learning curve as you develop a working relationship with your
 
VA
. Here are some tips to avoid confusion:


Be specific –
 
always lay out the tasks in clear simple language


Request status updates –
 
be kept in the loop especially in longer and more complicated tasks


Set time constraints –
 
use Parkinson’s Law to create specific and achievable time frames


Prioritize tasks –
 
always list tasks in terms of importance to you


Don’t overload –
 
be realistic when it comes to how much your VA can handle


Questions and Actions


Hire a
 
Virtual Assistant
 
for as little as $4 an hour. Begin by assigning tasks that have been left for the longest time. The tasks can include the most time consuming activities relating to marketing and your company’s online presence, or bigger picture tasks like researching new markets to pave the way for future growth.


Comfort Challenge


Speak to a colleague in a way that delivers criticism with praise wedged on both sides of the conversation. It is best to use this
 
‘Criticism Sandwich’
 
technique on a
 
Thursday,
 
a day in the workweek that is not overstressed or over-relaxed.


Create a conversation using a past action in a crisis or other positive event to lead into a desire to have clearer meeting goals or fewer time wasting emails. By padding the criticism with two positives, this approach can work wonders with colleagues who you find are contributing to time wastage.


Eliminating confrontation is crucial to request time saving steps that will benefit your office experience.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 9: Income Autopilot 1


“It’s time to find your muse.”


While endless opportunities exist for entrepreneurs to start new businesses, the goal is to create one that radically reduces the amount of time required to operate it.


Many of the world’s top brands outsource virtually every step of their manufacturing, distribution and customer service operations. It is essential to use these structures as models as you set out to design your own lifestyle of choice.


But the first step is to identify a product that fits this mold. Typically, service based businesses require extensive customer contact and are less attractive for the
 
New Rich.


The goal is to find a product that costs less than $500 to test market and can be completely automated in less than a calendar month. Once that has been accomplished, the company should take less than one eight hour day per week to keep things running smoothly. By defining this business entity as a
 
“muse,”
 
focus on
 
cash flow
 
and
 
time
 
as the core parameters to watch.


Always Start With the Goal


Rather than plodding through the set up of your
 
muse
 
from beginning to end,
start from the end first.
By determining the exact ways your product will be sold will ensure
 
a higher chance of success.


The fewer the sales channels, the better, because the more you open your product to resellers, the more competition will push down prices. Customers will become accustomed to deep discounts, and your profit level will crumble.


By creating an exclusive sales channel with a recognized retailer, you can ensure a happier client base, a reliable partner and healthier profits for your company.


Step 1: Choose a Niche Market You Can Afford to Enter


Never work to create demand for your product. Always choose one that can satisfy an existing market instead. Stick to what you know. If you have been a professional surfer and have an idea that suits a niche segment of the surfing community, you are on the right track. If you aim to develop a travel writing course but have never traveled nor been a travel writer, you are way off course.


Once you have determined the two niche markets you want to target, research magazines aimed at these audiences.


Step 2: Choosing Your Product


When you have found magazines with readerships over 15,000 that offer ad space pricing under $5,000, you can take the next step of selecting your product. When choosing this product it is essential that these four questions can be answered:


1. A single sentence description should outline the product’s benefits


2. The cost should fall between $50 and $200


3. Manufacturing should take less than a month


4.The project should be fully explainable in an FAQ format


Options: Resell, License or Create


Resell a Product


The easiest business, yet the least lucrative financially, is to resell a product. Discounts off the full retail price can be as high as 40%, although to purchase at this price level a business tax ID may be required. Check with your local state and complete the forms as necessary.


Note: It is essential that you test the product carefully before pursuing a resell business. See
 
Step 3
 
in
 
Chapter 10
 
for more details.


License a Product


Licensing has often been a more lucrative channel for a product, music band, or cartoon character to earn money. Licensing a product requires quite a bit of legal assistance, and the most common agreement is to pay the creator of the product between 3-10% of the wholesale price.


The other option is to license, manufacture and sell a product that can capture between 90 and 97% of the profit. This too requires a bit of legal legwork, and information can be found at this URL:
www.fourhourworkweek.com
.


Create a Product


By far the easiest and most financially rewarding of these three options is to create a product. But not just any product will do. With lightning speed, a new physical product (i.e. tennis shoe or baseball glove) can be copied and sold online in a matter of weeks.


Information products are much easier to sell, and with copyright laws protecting intellectual rights counterfeiting is much tougher as well. How-to videos or DVDs and self help are excellent topics to pursue because much of the back office support can be outsourced as profits roll in.


Does it matter if you are not an expert? No it does not, it is only essential to brainstorm how your experience makes you qualified to assist others in meaningful ways.


While content can be gathered from non-copyrighted sources or experts willing to share their input for a wider audience, think about some of your challenges and how colleagues in the same industry could benefit.


Are there any skills that you can extend to a wider audience?


Have you been through a crisis or some other life-changing event?


Become an Expert in a Month


It takes a lot of time to become an expert in anything, but this should not stop you from being seen as one by the media or potential customers. There are five steps you can take to become an expert:


1. Become a member of several trade organizations in your chosen area of expertise


2. Purchase the three most popular books in your field and write a brief overview for each


3. Offer free seminars at a famous university in your area, taping it to use for future promotions and DVD sales. Use the success from this event to approach large companies to do the same.


4. Choose trade magazines to either interview experts or write articles to get your name in print


5. Become a resource on Profnet, where journalists seek expert opinions in the form of quotes for upcoming articles.


Questions and Actions


Follow the actions laid out in this chapter, if you haven’t done so yet then work on them before moving on.


Comfort Challenge


Reach a famous celebrity, author or public figure through persistent calling and emails (only after attempting to call first). Use the beginning or end of the day to avoid being turned away, and choose a question to ask this person that you have not been able to answer yourself. Offer to exchange email addresses to stay in touch after the call.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 10: Income Autopilot II


“…intuition and experience are poor predictors of which products and businesses will be profitable.”


It is always more important to ask customers to buy (in general) rather than ask them if they would like to buy your product. Polite answers do not translate into firm sales when it comes down to customers actually pulling out cash and placing it on the table.


Focus groups and surveys are also unreliable when it comes to predicting success for a product. The clinical setting simply skews the data and it is only in the real market that a product can truly be tested.


Micro-testing the Product


Beating your competition is one way to micro-test your product. Research all the products out in the market thoroughly and determine ways to beat them in terms of features, style or price.


Create a one-page advertisement detailing your products features, and then test it via an Ebay auction or a website built from a template. It can cost as little as $50 to build and host a basic, two page website.


Google Adwords
 
is another option to test market a product. Over a five-day period, set up a campaign with a fixed amount of prospective search terms your customers would use to search online. Refining these search terms is crucial to get a better idea of how customers will find your product.


For as little as $250, you can determine the viability of your product based on the results gathered after only 5 days. Click-through rates, webpage abandonment percentages and length of time spent on particular web pages can be tracked and analyzed. You can then choose the best tagline, URL, advertising slogan and sales features and formulate them into a final advertisement that packs the biggest punch.


In less than a week, you have found what attributes best attract your customers, and once you have that information you can then take the next step to attracting more revenue. This could involve purchasing more product, setting up a merchant account system, or a larger website with FAQ’s clearly listed to reduce customer contact. Profits may be small at this stage, but the data you have started to gather on the viability of your product is priceless, and will pave the way for future expansion.


What comes next after successfully creating a business like this? Read on in the following chapters to continue streamlining your business into a system that drastically reduces your workload.


Four Steps to the New Rich




Select the Right Market


Choose Your Product Wisely


Careful Micro-testing of Your Product


Product Launch and Automation of the Sales




Comfort Challenge


Learn to walk away from an offer, no matter how good it seems.


Create a target price you are willing to pay that is 70% of the advertised price — $70 for $100 worth of merchandise, for example. The best locations to try this are where a large volume of cheap goods are for sale, like a flea market or farmers market. Approach several retailers and offer the lower price, using your negotiating skills to receive the goods at the price you are offering. Walk away if they refuse you even after your best efforts.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 11: Income Autopilot III


“Once you have a product that sells, it’s time to design a self correcting business architecture that runs itself.”


In Chapter 10 it was suggested that setting the end goal first was the most important step to take while planning your new business. As you have now established your business, and revenue is starting to materialize, the standard management practice of being a nice boss or a mean boss may seem like the next logical step. However, a third option exists: simply disappear.


With telecommunications getting ever cheaper, the need to be face to face has become less important. To free yourself from the cookie cutter management style, choose where you want to run your business. It could be from home to allow more time with your children, it could be in Chile while you learn to snowboard, or under a palm tree in the South Pacific. This choice may seem like business suicide, but time spent in the office is not cut out entirely, just drastically reduced. Some CEOs choose a one day a week plan in the office, others one day a month.


Design Your Dream Machine


Size has almost always been the driving force behind the growth of business. However, the complications and problems that come from a large company mean headaches and long hours, exactly what we want to avoid:


“Our goal isn’t to create a business that is as large as possible, but rather a business that bothers us little as possible.”


Define your end in mind first, it can be as simple as labeling the last step of the diagram with your name and your bank account on it. Tracing back through the order fulfillment, order receiving, and marketing steps, outline in clear terms how each will function as smoothly as possible without your input at every step.


What will be missing? You. Though you may step in to fix problems or issues that arise, you will not be a pipeline through which all actions will need to flow through in order to operate smoothly. Create a dream machine that runs itself and one that all you have to do is check a few spreadsheets a week while monitoring your bank accounts and having fun.


Outsourcing As a Way to Cut Costs


Many companies are using outsourcing to reduce costs related to call centers, shipping and fulfillment procedures. While they can help lower the price per unit, its always important to carefully pad the costs incurred to manufacture, store, and ship your products to ensure no unexpected bills pop up.


It is always important to factor in advertising costs as well to produce an accurate per unit profit figure. If you spent $500 on advertising to sell 250 books, then the profit on each book would be reduced by exactly $2 on each copy.


When Should You Step Aside?


One of the biggest pitfalls for new companies is forgetting to create a
 
scalable
 
model for growth. If your system can only handle 10 orders per week, because you are handling every single call, email and customer service complaint, how will you handle it when it suddenly jumps to 1,000 a week? If your company’s structure isn’t
 
scalable,
 
you could face collapse.


Ramping Up


While you are approaching the threshold of 50 units sold, it is important that you personally handle the volume of work involved. To get a clear idea of your customers common questions, answer the phone. Change your website if the verbiage is too weak or winds up attracting time consuming customers. Time invested in this phase will pay dividends in time saved down the line.


Under 10 Units a Week


When you have passed the ten units a week threshold, begin to research companies that can fulfill your orders and ask for a list of their current customers to inquire about their service quality.


Ensure your FAQ section is as detailed as possible to continue to minimize email contact from customers.


Under 20 Units a Week


Once your business is shipping over 20 units per week, it is time to set up a more sophisticated card processing system and hire a larger fulfillment company that can handle refunds and problems with orders.


Paying for a unique 800 number is expensive, but like fulfillment services, getting a unique number can be outsourced. When selecting a potential call center, be extremely careful to call other companies using the same service. If the wait time is too long, keep looking for other call centers whose wait time is less than 15 seconds.


Less Is Always More


The more choice you offer your customers, the tougher it will be for them to decide what product or service they want. Offer two tiers of pricing that satisfy the core market you are targeting, remembering the 80/20 rule.


Avoid creating a product or service that caters to the time wasting 80%, because not only will this result in more time wasting customer service issues, it will also lower revenue. More income is generated with two carefully chosen options that five or six that confuse and cause indecision.


Other pitfalls to avoid include taking orders over the phone. Refuse international shipping addresses due to the extensive paperwork and potential for delays and loss.


Firing Customers


When your business has reached a certain level of cash flow, it’s time to look more closely at your customer base. Always refuse paper payments for product, and keep your minimum wholesale amount high to deter repeat orders that demand a discount every time.


In many industries the same rule applies: customer complaints are inversely proportionate to the amount they spend. The more money they spend, the less they complain. Avoid offering free products and instead discount schemes that build a customer base seeking value.


Creating a company policy surrounding service and satisfaction can be a fantastic channel to strengthening your brand. Whether it’s an airline offering bags service in under 20 minutes or a pizza chain offering their pies in the same amount of time, dream up a guarantee that will both keep your customers happy, set your company apart from the competition, and build customer loyalty.


Comfort Challenge


The next time you are out in public, choose a spot at your favorite café, restaurant or bar, and lie on the floor for exactly 10 seconds. Doing this will break down your self-consciousness and dissolve your fears.















Chapter Summaries: Step 4: L IS FOR LIBERATION





















The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 12: Disappearing Act


“The guard is changing. Being bound to one place will be the new defining feature of the middle class.”


As soon as Internet connectivity spread across the country, working from home gained a foothold in the American workplace. Whether one day a week or more, bosses have become much more comfortable allowing their staff to tele-commute, saving them money while seeing productivity soar. And it is no longer the mainstay of small companies. Major corporations are now adopting this too, saving costs on office space and giving career minded staff more time with their families.


The next big shift is to take your work anywhere you want to be. Rather than shuffle to your desk and log on from home, why not login from a hotel restaurant in Brazil? Why not return work phone calls from Australia while attending the Melbourne Cup races? As long as your workload is complete, the location where it was undertaken is no longer relevant.


How does one make this leap? For salaried employees, adopting the time saving strategies outlined in previous chapters, matched with firm focus on the 20% of your clients that bring in 80% of your profit will never go unnoticed by your superiors.


While this leap in productivity is essential to convince your boss to grant you the location independent working enviroment you strive for, remember to keep some feathers in your cap by saving some productivity gains for the trial period of working remotely.


Another step is to convince your company to pay for a training program that is both expensive and one that will result in firm gains for their bottom line. Examples range from advanced sales training to skill courses that will broaden the firm’s offering to clients. Whatever the topic, having invested financially in you, their employer, your company will be far less hesitant to terminate your employment should they reject your request working remotely.


Be sure to create a strong case for your departure from the office. Make a list of all the benefits the company will see in your physical absence. Decreased office distractions can be one item on this list, plus a firm amount of increased output above your current workload. Make sure this is an achievable goal so that when you are away from the office, your actual increase is even higher.


Once you have achieved these steps, its time to take the leap and schedule a talk with your boss. Keep it short and to the point, and always offer a fixed amount of time in which your new working arrangement can be cancelled, should your carefully laid out points not be met. Never ask for a full week, instead aiming for around two days per week to start things off. This way if two days is refused, you can offer just one day and then expand it from there.


Once the new working schedule has been approved, keep careful control of your in office productivity and your at home productivity. Always keep the in office work output somewhat less, so that in several weeks time, when your boss can see the clear difference in your productivity, you can approach him again and suggest doubling the out of office time to say, four days a week.


At this time, it may still be too early to gain full freedom from the office, but you are well on your way to independence as long as you carefully and shrewdly give your superiors clear, quantifiable differences in your home and in office work performance.


Stonewalling


If after all your best efforts to convince your bosses to set you free continue to be ignored, its time to move on. Read on through the next chapter to find out what to do in this situation.


Questions And Actions


It can be difficult for workers to take control of their lives when it seems corporations seem to hold all the cards. Gathering up the courage to break free of the current work mold is not as hard as it seems, as long as each step you take continues to present more benefits to your boss, so much so that whatever you ask for is granted.


If in doubt, consider asking yourself whether your work performance is up to your boss’ standards to move to location independence. If the answer is no, practice working remotely, perhaps on a Saturday at a cafe near your house, in order to test yourself to see if you are ready.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 13: Beyond Repair


“Revisit fear setting and cut the cord.”


Sometimes it’s time to cut your losses and leave a job behind. Despite pay raises, more benefits, or other trappings to keep you happy, some jobs are simply too soul crushing to remain in for long periods of time. When you were young, did you dream of spending hours in a cubicle?


While termination may be a shock for some, it can, in the long run, be a blessing in disguise. The financial turmoil may cause quite a sting, but for most, being fired is a relief that results in a new career path and much more happiness.


Never let pride stop you from leaving a job that is making you unhappy either. If you feel you had poor judgement going in, let go of the past and move on:


“Being able to quit things that don’t work is integral to being a winner. Going into a job without defining when worthwhile becomes wasteful is like going into a casino without a cap on what you will gamble: dangerous and foolish.”


Some may question whether quitting or being fired will damage their resume, or limit their career options down the road. Virtually everyone will be fired or let go from at least one position in their career, and they all navigated that experience to move on to better things.


Financial concerns about paying bills or protecting retirement accounts are also a concern. If you have followed the steps in this book, you will have created an income stream, however if you have not, reduce your expenses to ride out the storm.


Questions and Actions


Ask yourself if you feel you can get the same satisfaction from the job you just left versus one in another field. The answer will help guide you towards a career that is more fulfilling.


Utilize unused sick or vacation days to post your resume on job sites, and go for interviews to remain competitive.


While it may seem scary if you are terminated from your position, you may be thanking your boss a year later when you are sitting on a beach in Thailand running your own business. And never let fear stop you from quitting, even if family and peers say you should stay. Trust your gut instinct instead.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary:Chapter 14: Mini-Retirements


“What did you spend your last $400 on?


The
 
New Rich
 
know that working 80 hour weeks for 30 or 40 years with the distant goal of retirement is both foolish and insane. They also know that their money goes much further abroad. Through shrewd decisions, they manage to enjoy mini-retirements spaced between periods of work.


Make ‘We’re in Barcelona, it must be Tuesday” History


Rather than hitting a dozen countries in ten days, as many stressed out career executives do (Americans have among the shortest annual vacations in the industrialized world), spread out your trips to savor rather than gorge. Spending six weeks in one place is a magical way to learn a language, cooking and to savor local customs. With more mini-retirements scheduled throughout the year, you won’t need to whittle down your bucket list to a single night in each city, nor will you feel the need to rush around like a chicken without a head, from airport to airport, hotel to hotel, sight to sight, returning home with a camera full of photographs that you cant remember where they were taken. Slow down, and relax.


The Value of Your Dollar


Most people calculate their travel costs against what they spent on a recent two week vacation. The good news is that their money goes much further than they think. Not only can using a credit card for business expenses rack up frequent flyer miles, but choosing where you stay holds a great deal of importance.


Instead of booking a swank hotel, rent an apartment instead. Virtually every destination now has apartment rentals that can come out costing much less than a hotel, with cleaning and security services included. Meals too are much less expensive than at home, costing as little as a quarter of what you would pay for the equivalent service and quality in a major city.


When you add up the costs you are incurring for your life at home, compared to what you are spending abroad, you may find that these
 
mini-retirements
 
actually save you cash.


Common Excuses Not to Travel


People use everything from the evening news to their financial condition as excuses not to travel. They savor horror stories and harbor ‘what if’ scenarios, fearing terror attacks, robberies, drug plantings and more – seriously, stop watching
 
Midnight Express
 
already!


Other fears relating to traveling with children are unfounded: they will get sick, miss school, and the away time will affect their development. What could be better than exposure to foreign countries for children? They will grow up to be citizens of the world, and the added delight of seeing the world through their eyes is priceless.


Less is More


Living at a fixed address, where the accumulation of material possessions can go unchecked (just chuck it into the garage), traveling can be a great way to cut the clutter and clear your mind at the same time. No one needs five suitcases for a one-month trip, and you should begin to master the art of minimalism when planning and packing for your
 
mini-retirement.


It is easy to offload those five year old magazines and surplus furniture before you leave through public posting sites. Friends, colleagues and family can also be relied upon to give a good home to things that you want to thin out.


Pack with the same frame of mind. Take enough clothes to last a week. Unless you have freakishly large shoes or are extremely tall or large, most people can purchase clothes abroad at a fraction of the cost at home. Places like Bangkok, India and Hong Kong are great places to for shop for clothes.


Questions and Actions


Take a look at your finances and search for expenses you can cut that wont impact your bottom line. This can help free up money to fund your
 
mini-retirement,
 
especially if doubts remain.


With over 200 countries to choose from, selecting a location for your mini-retirement can be a challenge. Brainstorm for places – then sort through them in descending order of interest. Take the top five, and choose one.


Three months before you leave for your mini-retirement, be sure to follow the elimination steps outlined in previous chapters. The 80/20 rule can apply to this as well.


When it is less than two months before leaving, ensure your automation runs smoothly by contacting every company involved in your business to clarify procedures and steps taken should there be any snags. A close friend, colleague or family member can act as your power of attorney in case of incidents regarding taxes or disputes.


With just 4 weeks to go, get all your mail forwarded to a specific address, and trial test all your remote software like
 
GoToMyPC
, etc. Make paper checks vanish by creating direct deposit relationships with your clients or distributors.


In the week before going to the airport, sign up for a
 
SkypeIn
 
account to give you a US umber that can ring on a foreign cell phone or laptop (if you decide to bring it). Get travel insurance, in particular evacuation insurance should you be heading to a remote area. Carry a USB with all your scanned documents (be very careful with this device) including passport, debit and credit cards, etc, so you can send the details should they become lost, damaged or stolen.


As soon as you arrive in your destination, purchase a local cell phone and SIM card to receive incoming calls (If you choose to take them). Locate an apartment, renting for no longer than a month until you know it is quiet and safe. Refrain from making big souvenir purchases until two weeks before coming home, and think them through carefully to ensure you really do need them. More often than not, you don’t.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 15: Filling the Void


“Don’t be afraid of the existential or social challenges.”


Leaving the Tribe


Setting sail, alone, to a foreign country can sink you into an unfathomable depression. “How,” you ask yourself while wandering the streets of Paris en route to another street side cafe, “can I feel this way when this is what I asked for to begin with?!!”


The office, with all its drama and politics, is a social support network that once taken away can be a challenge to replace. You may even miss it. But remember that for everyone from yourself to a
 
Deferrer
 
who retired according to his or her set plan, there is always going to be a time that the oh-so-perfect day lazying underneath a palm tree can become boring, or that gorgeous villa in Italy seems stale after seeing it a hundred times.


Set goals. Get out there and meet new people. Sign up for language classes. Take a dance class. Strike up conversations with locals and see where it takes you. It may take some time to get your legs abroad, but tiny steps can lead to changes that you will soon see, changes that you set out to make in the first place.


Chances are this crisis will raise its head again. Most of the complaints refer to comparisons to other people. Friends back home who are riding a financial wave due to their company’s IPO launch. A friend’s purchase of a new beach house or a college buddy who bought a new sports car. Stop comparing yourself to anyone.


What is the Meaning Of Life, Anyway?


The purpose of life has been debated ever since humans walked the earth, and look around, most of your fellow
 
homo sapiens
 
are no more capable now than they ever were to answer that question. Just what are we meant to be doing on this planet, anyway?


If a term is ever fuzzy, undefinable, and impossible to answer — let it go.


The Point Is….


Living well is the point. And following through on this path has resulted in changes you probably thought weren’t even possible.


Would you have been able to take shadow boxing classes at dawn in Shanghai?Would you have learned to cook Vietnamese food in Hue?Would you have made that friendship with that family in Cairo?


Think about that when you question the path you have chosen.


Helping Others


“Service is an attitude”


Getting involved while based abroad is a rewarding and easily accessible activity. You may find expats who think their favorite charity or organization is better, doing more work, but the fact is there is just as much need among certain communities in New York as there are in Sao Paulo. Select the organization you support and support it, simple as that.


Questions and Actions


Take time to volunteer. Virtually every country has organizations you can become involved with. Use your time there to help and give back. Take it one step further and start your own organization.


Now, think back to a time when you had a dream job. Was it to be a travel writer, or a painter? Take a hard look at what makes you angry, and what makes you excited. Brainstorm lists and work towards goals that are satisfying as well as rearding.


Look around at all the time you have created for yourself, and pursue that career. The career you choose should answer just about all your existential angst all in one go! If it doesn’t, brainstorm until you find one.









The 4-Hour Workweek Summary: Chapter 16: Top 13 New Rich Mistakes


Over time, you may lapse back into some old habits from your previous life. Its important to stay focused, and the following 13 caveats will ensure you stay on course:




Always have a clear set of dreams you want to achieve


Don’t waste time with meaningless tasks


Don’t deal with things you have hired people to do


Never get involved with client or supplier situations that are not critical


Never waste time seeking new business from shaky sources


Let your FAQ answer your customers questions


Always keep your work and sleep areas completely separate


Don’t forget the 80/20 rule, re evaluate it twice a month


Perfection is never the goal if it takes endless time to achieve it


Never let issues blow out of proportion ad require you to fix them


Prioritize issues according to their real timetable, don’t create unnecessary urgency


Keep your options open, your products and focus is always going to evolve


Create a social circle of people who have no connection to your career. Savor the relationships for the pleasure itself.




Pitfalls exist in any experience, but staying the course on your new life will reward you in ways you could never have imagined. Stay focused, and these rewards will only multiply.















Additional Reading





















Related Online Content for The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss


Major Reviews


Wired Magazine


www.wired.com/culture/lifestyle/magazine/17-01/mf_self_help?currentPage=all


“
The book has a Choose Your Own Adventure vibe, where you can jump around to any area you want to improve. I read the whole thing. Most important, it turns out, is avoiding distractions. I have already failed by reading chapters that don't apply to me. The other usual distracters include perfectionism, procrastination, interruptions, and meetings. And email. Morgenstern calls these time-eaters "nibblers." Adorable!”


The New York Times


www.nytimes.com/2007/11/11/fashion/11guru.html?pagewanted=all


“
His methods include practicing “selective ignorance” — tuning out pointless communiqués, random Twitters, and even world affairs (Mr. Ferriss says he gets most of his news by asking waiters). Work crisis? Pay someone else to worry about it — ideally in Bangalore. On a bet, Mr. Ferriss even hired low-paid, high-skilled workers abroad to find him dates online. (It worked.)”


Pick The Brain


www.pickthebrain.com/blog/how-to-maximize-your-day-job-while-creating-a-4-hour-work-week/


“To join the New Rich you’ll need to break out of this mindset and master time management. A great place to start is batching. Instead of letting email be a constant interruption, close Outlook (trust me, it can be done) and only open it at specific times during the day. You’ll find plowing through 20-30 emails at once is exponentially faster than answering one at a time. The concept of batching can be applied to any group of similar tasks. Your biggest problem will be figuring out how to use all the spare time.”


The Daily Beast


www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/blogs/jobbed/2010/01/12/how-much-are-you-willing-to-work-.html


“The timeline for what they were planning to do in retirement has shifted. That has a lot of people looking at Plan B options that they wouldn't have considered two years ago. The book is fundamentally about better results. For some people, that means removing financial constraints or becoming untethered from the office. For other people, that means becoming the most indispensable person in their company, which gives them the leverage to negotiate remote work arrangements. The costs of experimenting with the uncommon, when everything is perceived as failing, are fairly low.”


Explore For a Year


exploreforayear.com/productivity/4-hour-workweek-book-review-give-away


“It opened my eyes to possibilities outside the traditional ideas of working an office job, waiting for retirement to enjoy extended travel/free time, that working harder is better, and that new life experienced has to cost a lot.”


Other Perspectives


David Seah, Writer


davidseah.com/blog/2007/04/a-review-of-tim-ferriss-the-4-hour-work-week/


“T4HWW is a remarkably transparent guide to achieving that lifestyle you’ve always wanted but didn’t dare admit, rationally presented as a series of steps predicated on a fundamental rule:
 
reality is negotiable…outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken.
 
Amen, brother!”


The New Yorker


www.newyorker.com/reporting/2011/09/05/110905fa_fact_mead


“
That book counsels readers to limit their newspaper reading to the headlines visible from vending machines and to outsource the management of their calendars and finances to a remote personal assistant in Bangalore.”


Life Hack


www.lifehack.org/articles/lifestyle/interview-with-tim-ferriss-of-the-4-hour-workweek-part-1.html


“
Forbes recently reported the new average workweek as 70 hours, and this will only increase. It’s unsustainable, just as I realized in 2004, and people want alternatives to postponing life for 20-30 years for a nebulous “retirement”. The 4-Hour Workweek offers a different menu of options — mini-retirements, outsourcing life, etc. — many of which people haven’t really seen before.”


CNN Money


money.cnn.com/2007/05/04/magazines/fsb/4_hour_week.fsb/index.htm


“I also had to abandon being busy for being productive. I came from a nine-to-five culture and had adopted that schedule without considering alternatives. I realized I could reduce my hours by limiting tasks to the critical few and cutting my work time to force myself to focus on the most important projects.”


John Falchetto, Expat Life Coach


expatlifecoach.com/expat-entrepreneur/tim-ferriss-ego-living-abroad/


“You dont hack life like you do a kickboxing tournament. Putting relationships on auto, outsourcing calls and email, Ferriss loves to measure achievements by who won and how effectively time was managed.”









Trivia for The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss




Tim Ferriss came up with the idea for The 4-Hour Workweek while guest lecturing at Princeton University.


The book was almost called “Dealing Drugs for Fun and Profit.”


The term “lifestyle design” was first introduced in this book.


Reviews from online blogs formed the core marketing focus for The 4-Hour WorkWeek.


The book stayed simultaneously on The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal’s best seller lists.











About the Author




 
David Lowe




David Lowe was born in New York City and has worked in various postions across the travel industry in Australia, Thailand, Argentina, the Maldives and Hong Kong. He is an expert in planning sabbaticals and around the world travel and is also a licensed travel insurance specialist. Currently a freelance writer and travel author based in San Francisco, David blogs all things travel from his website, www.theloweroad.com.











About the Publisher


Hyperink is the easiest way for anyone to publish a beautiful, high-quality book.


We work closely with subject matter experts to create each book. We cover topics ranging from higher education to job recruiting, from Android apps marketing to barefoot running.


Hyperink is based in SF and actively hiring people who want to shape publishing's future. 
Email us
 if you'd like to meet our team!


Note:
 If you're reading this book in print or on a device that's not web-enabled, 
please email
 
books@hyperinkpress.com
 with the title of this book in the subject line. We'll send you a PDF copy, so you can access all of the great content we've included as clickable links.













Copyright © 2012-Present. Hyperink Inc.


The standard legal stuff:


All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without permission in writing from Hyperink Inc., except for brief excerpts in reviews or analysis.


Our note:


Please don't make copies of this book. We work hard to provide the highest quality content possible - and we share a lot of it for free on our sites - but these books are how we support our authors and the whole enterprise. You're welcome to borrow (reasonable) pieces of it as needed, as long as you give us credit.


Thanks!


The Hyperink Team




Disclaimer


This ebook provides information that you read and use at your own risk.


We do not take responsibility for any misfortune that may happen, either directly or indirectly, from reading and applying the information contained and/or referenced in this ebook.


This Quicklet, Best Book, and Hyperink are not affiliated with or sponsored by the original work or its author or publisher(s). This Quicklet and Best Book are intended to provide educational commentary and analysis about the original work, but this Quicklet and Best Book are not endorsed by the author or publisher(s) of the original work.


Thanks for understanding. Good luck!






















