




























Table of Contents


Cover


Epilogue


Title page


Copyright page


Dedication


Introduction


SECTION A Build your core The cornerstone of successful communication


1 How to prepare communication that works


The Problem with How People Prepare Communication


The 231 Approach: The Best Way to Communicate Effectively


How to Know Your Communication Has Worked


Focus on 231, Not 123


Two Final Things To Help Embed the 231 Approach


Next Steps – In Other Words, Your “DO”


SECTION B Get more done more quickly How to save one month per year


Why This Matters


2 When you want to ensure people do what you want immediately


Step 1: Identify what the First Step Is


Step 2: Be Clear When You’ll Do This First Step


Step 3: Ensure You Remember, By Reminding Yourself


3 When you want to find the time to communicate brilliantly


How to Find the Time You Need


4 When you want to impress senior audiences when you haven’t much time


Why Walloping Is a Time-Saving Tip


5 When you want to ensure people remember your key messages


6 When you want to quickly create presentations that work


The Five Steps of Creating a Great Presentation


7 When you want to have better, quicker meetings and conference calls


8 When you want to only attend the meetings you need to


9 When you want to prepare for meetings in the right way


10 When you want to ensure meetings generate actions, not just discussion topics


Turning Discussions Into Actions


Making Success Inevitable


11 When you want to run punchy, interesting and effective update meetings (or not have them)


12 When you want to get a quick response to an FYI email


The Problem With Speed


Getting Good Responses to FYIS


Powerful Alternatives to FYI


13 When you want to empty your inbox


How to Receive Fewer Emails


How to Ensure You Never Look at Emails Twice


How to Remove Emails Once You’ve Finished with Them


14 When you want to see how much extra time you’ve now got


SECTION C Persuade more people to say “yes” How to convince others to do what you want


Why this matters


15 When you want to understand what really motivates people


16 When you want to say things that excite people


Be Benefits-Based, not Features-Focused


17 When you want to align your agenda to everyone else’s


Identify “Why That’s Good”


Say the “Best Bit” First


18 When you want to get an enthusiastic “yes” very quickly


BO: A Better Way to Get a “Yes”


19 When you want to prove you’re someone’s best option


20 When you want to make a sale


ABCDE: The Simplest Way to Sell More


21 When you want to write a winning proposal or sales presentation


Creating Sales Communications from Scratch


Editing First Drafts Quickly


22 When you want to stand out from the crowd


Which of the Super Six is Best?


23 When you want to cause long-term change, not a short-term blip


Simple Ways to Reinforce Key Messages


Reinforce Messages the Right Number of Times


24 When you want to use the best communication channel to get a quick “yes”


25 When you want to create titles that instantly grab people


How to Create Engaging Titles


26 When you want to write eye-catching introductions


Use the 4Ws to Create Powerful Introductions


Combining Great Titles with Powerful Introductions


The 4Ws Even Works at Home


27 When you want to use analogies to make your point


How to Create Powerful Analogies


28 When you want to structure your communications so they’re more persuasive


If Star Wars Can Do It, So Can You


Three Quick Steps, to Embed the “Star Wars Way”


29 When you want to pass an exam


Focus on the Marker


Read the Requirement First


Get Easy Marks First


Break the Requirement Down into Bits


Maximize Your Marks by Seeing Things from Different Viewpoints


Stop on Time


Preparing in the Right Way


30 When you want to get a job interview


Start with the Employer’s Needs, not Your Background


Focus on the Results You’ve Caused, not the Work You’ve Done


Tell Your Unique Story in a Clear, Compelling Way


Link Your Experiences to Their Needs


And the Best Advice about Your résumé?


SECTION D Enjoy your job more How to make work more fun


Why this matters


31 When you want to ensure everyone – including you – thinks you’re great


How to ensure you think you’re great


How to ensure everyone thinks you’re great


How your AFTERs-focus improves your communication


And finally . . . 


32 When you want to build powerful relationships quickly


1.  Know the right people


2.  See your contacts the right number of times


3.  Have the right conversations


33 When you want to get things right first time


To find lots of gold, dig deep


34 When you want to deliver interesting presentations that impress everyone


35 When you want to use “word pictures” to help people remember things


36 When you want to use initials to help people remember things


37 When you want to use games and activities to make your point


38 When you want to enjoy using PowerPoint


1.  Go to PowerPoint last, not first


2.  Use the visual thing for visual things


3.  Make yourself smile


4.  Press “B” or “W”


5.  Use PowerPoint shortcuts


6.  Chat, don’t rant


7.  Unclutter your slides


8.  And, the best one of all?


A point to ponder


39 When you want to create great visuals to enhance your message


Step 1: Improve your title


Step 2: Prioritize your points


Step 3: Remove as many low-priority points as possible


Step 4: Remove the unimportant words


Step 5: Insert slide-builds


Step 6: Make the slides look nice


Useful Tip 1: Prepare two slide-sets, not one


Useful Tip 2: Preparing “Compare and Contrast” slides


40 When you want to start a presentation brilliantly (when your audience is large and/or doesn’t know you)


Start with a bang


41 When you want to appear polished, even if you haven’t practised much


Polished presenting (when you’re in a team)


Polished presenting (when you’re on your own)


42 When you want to prepare for – and deliver – an excellent Q&A session


43 When you want to ensure your important initiatives succeed


Step 1: Communicating upfront


Step 2: Communicating throughout


44 When you want to have good two-way conversations


45 When you want to enjoy attending networking events


The four steps of a pleasant, productive networking conversation


The most important thing about networking


46 When you want to help people read your documents quickly


47 When you want to improve people’s performance through observation and coaching


48 When you want to improve people’s performance after annual reviews


Hold Previews, not Reviews


Focus on the “What and how”, not just the “What”


Get the foundations right


49 When you want to improve people’s performance when you delegate to them


SECTION E Eliminate the negatives How to remove your communication frustrations


Why This Matters


50 When you want to stop saying “no” too quickly


51 When you want to say “no” in a way that doesn’t cause you problems


52 When you want to come up with good ideas, but can’t think of any


53 When you want to remove someone’s concerns about what you’re planning to do


A Step-By-Step Guide, To Make This Easy To Do


A Final Thought


54 When you want to remove someone’s final reason for saying “no”


55 When you want to get good outcomes from challenging conversations


A Four-Step Approach To Resolving Challenging Situations


How To Prepare for Challenging Conversations


With Challenging Conversations, Does Follow-Up Matter?


56 When you want to stop procrastinating about initiating challenging conversations


Serve and Volley: How to Start Awkward Conversations


57 When you want to stop your messages becoming diluted


58 When you want to stop diluting other people’s messages


When Cascading, Be a Colour Car Wash


How to Be a Colour Car Wash


How to Cascade, When You Can’t Add Colour


59 When you want to stop hating presentations


1.  Ensure Your Content Is Interesting


2.  Ensure Your Delivery Is Interesting


3.  Remember Your Credentials


4.  Keep It Short


5.  Expect Good Things to Happen, and They Will


6.  Practice. a Lot


7.  Work Your Body


8.  But Don’t Be “Too Confident”


60 When you want to avoid people instantly doubting your credibility


61 When you want to stop wasting your time with people who can’t make decisions


Step 1 – Finding the Decision Maker


Step 2 – Getting in Front of Them


Step 3 – Saying the Right Thing to Decision Makers


62 When you want to prevent avoidable disasters


63 When you want to stop saying irrelevant stuff


Your Best Option: Ask


Another Great Option: Jolt


64 When you want to break the pattern of hearing useful ideas, but doing nothing with them


A Final Thought


Conclusion: Build your momentum


Appendix: Useful communication templates


Template To Help You Prepare All Communications


Template To Help You Prepare Better Presentations


Template To Help You Prepare Better Emails


Template To Help You Prepare Better Conference Calls And Meetings


Template To Help You Prepare Better for Your Conversations


Template To Help You Prepare Better Documents


And for more help . . .


Acknowledgments


About Andy Bounds


Index

















“Our world is made up of those who make things happen and those to whom things happen. The leaders and the led. And what makes the difference? The leaders get their own way. They know how to persuade. I have never met anyone who knows more about this than Andy Bounds. And in this book, he tells you exactly how you can acquire it.”




Drayton Bird, the world’s leading authority on direct marketing




“Another excellent book from Andy Bounds, designed to help businesses communicate more effectively. Ours is one of the world’s largest accounting networks, and over the last 12 months Andy has transformed the way we speak with our clients, prospects and colleagues. His techniques and methods are simple but effective, and they are making a big difference to our business.”




Geoff Barnes, CEO and President, Baker Tilly International




“Yet again, Andy Bounds provides us all with effective, quick to use and impactful advice and techniques. In today’s and the future business environment, where everything is online, 140 characters, and sometimes even face-to-face, communication is everything. Making each of these interactions outstanding for the other person marks you out as someone different. With Andy and this book as our guide, we can become better communicators, step-by-step.”




Paul Patterson, Sales & Marketing Executive Director, Fujitsu




“I’ve seen the great impact this book’s techniques can have. My colleagues have embraced Andy Bounds’ advice, and are communicating better than ever before – both with each other and with our customers.”




Matthew Dunn, Sales Director, Data & Analytics, Experian Marketing Services




“Andy Bounds is one of the most insightful and inspirational global business experts. His ideas transform companies. Having seen the impact he has on an audience, and having met managers who have benefited from his ideas, I am in no doubt that 
The Snowball Effect
 should be required reading for anyone who wants to see their business thrive.”




Alan Stevens FPSA, PSAE, Past President, Global Speakers Federation




“A must-read book! In today’s fully global, fast-paced society, communication underpins everything people do and effective communication is crucial for success in both business and in life. This is the essential, practical, easy-to-read guide that will revolutionize the way you communicate in order to get more done and do it more quickly, more pleasantly, and less stressfully for optimum results in all that you do.”




Ivan Misner, Ph.D., NY Times Bestselling Author and Founder of BNI®




“The impact that Andy’s advice has on people is, quite simply, stunning. Andy’s techniques are easy to implement; more importantly, they deliver results. I guarantee anyone will pick up new ideas from his book. Even better, new ideas they can use the second they put the book down. 
The Snowball Effect
 isn’t a nice-to-have; it’s a must-have book. Buy it, read it and reap the rewards.”




Bev James, Bestselling Author of 
Do It! or Ditch It
 and CEO of The Coaching Academy




“Andy Bounds is an expert at helping people communicate more effectively. 
The Snowball Effect
 is full of new ideas that, simply put, you can use immediately – an excellent read and a must-have for anyone looking to achieve more in less time.”




Claire Scholes, HR Director CHI, British Gas Services Limited




“Andy Bounds is not only one of the nicest and most sincere people I have met, he is also a truly fine communicator. His approach and skills are applied in the most practical and focused fashion in helping deliver that most vital of fuel to your business – more sales. He helps you achieve this in a pragmatic, no-nonsense and clear manner, and in his new book he gives some wonderful insights as to how you can apply his wisdom on a daily business to achieve clear and meaningful results. Read the book, and give Andy a call.”




Martyn Best, President of the Liverpool Society of Chartered Accountants, 2011/12




“The ability to communicate is essential to our personal and professional lives and success. Andy Bounds provides a practical guideline for anyone who wants to improve, polish and accelerate their ability to connect, relate and converse in any room!”




Susan RoAne, Author of the International Classic 
How To Work a Room
 and Keynote Speaker




“Successful responsible businesses communicate actively with their customers, employees and wider stakeholders. We live in a world that is increasingly inter­connected and we are communicating much more frequently by ever-evolving means. What is vital to maintain trust in a company, and achieve growth, is making sure that communication is clear and effective. This book has useful lessons for companies large and small. It will make you think about how you communicate and, more importantly, give you practical tools to start improving immediately – a must-read.”




Stephen Howard, CEO, Business in the Community




“A toolbox of powerful techniques that will help anyone communicate more powerfully, effectively and confidently than ever before.”




James Caan, Founder & CEO, Hamilton Bradshaw




“This fast-moving, helpful and practical book shows you how to develop instant rapport, connect with the basic interests of the other person, and persuade him/her quickly to your point of view in a warm, professional manner.”




Brian Tracy, Author of 
The Power of Self-Confidence






































Cover design: Mackerel Limited


© 2013 Andy Bounds Ltd


Registered office


Capstone Publishing Ltd (A Wiley Company), John Wiley and Sons Ltd, The Atrium, Southern Gate, Chichester, West Sussex, PO19 8SQ, United Kingdom


For details of our global editorial offices, for customer services and for information about how to apply for permission to reuse the copyright material in this book please see our website at 
www.wiley.com
.


The right of the author to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.


All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, except as permitted by the UK Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, without the prior permission of the publisher.


Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this material at 
http://booksupport.wiley.com
. For more information about Wiley products, visit 
www.wiley.com
.


Designations used by companies to distinguish their products are often claimed as trademarks. All brand names and product names used in this book and on its cover are trade names, service marks, trademark or registered trademarks of their respective owners. The publisher and the book are not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book. None of the companies referenced within the book have endorsed the book.


Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with the respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. It is sold on the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering professional services and neither the publisher nor the author shall be liable for damages arising here from. If professional advice or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional should be sought.


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available


A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.


ISBN 978-0-857-08397-5 (pbk) ISBN 978-0-857-08398-2 (ebk)


ISBN 978-0-857-08400-2 (ebk) ISBN 978-0-857-08399-9 (ebk)


Set in 10/12 pt Myriad Pro Light by Toppan Best-set Premedia Limited


Printed in Great Britain by TJ International Ltd, Padstow, Cornwall, UK















To Em, Meg, Jack, Maia and Tom – My angels and my demons x











Introduction


Imagine how life-changing it would be if your communications suddenly became better than everyone else’s.


The benefits would be huge. After all, great communicators are more successful. They get more done. They persuade others more easily. They enjoy their jobs more.


So, there you go. It’s as simple as that. Just communicate better, and you’ll achieve great things.


The problem, of course, is that it isn’t “simple” to communicate brilliantly. If it was, your diary wouldn’t be full of tedious conference calls, pointless meetings, and presentations where you watch somebody read out their slides.


And also, it’s taken you your entire life to develop your current communication style. It’s part of you. And it’s hard to break such entrenched habits (after all, how many “transformational” workshops have you attended that changed things for 1–2 days only, if that?)


The Only Way to Improve Your Communication Skills Forever


I’ve helped some of the world’s largest companies to communicate better. I’ve spoken at conferences in 30+ countries about communication best practices. My mum is blind, so I’ve a lifetime’s experience of talking to someone who can’t see things the way I do – an essential skill when communicating. My previous book 
The Jelly Effect: How to make your communication stick
 is an international bestseller (it was only kept off the Amazon #1 spot by the final 
Harry Potter
 book).


So, I know how to help people make long-lasting improvements to how they communicate. And one thing I’ve seen again and again is:


The best way to improve forever is to keep adding simple techniques, embedding them as you go.


The alternative – trying to change loads of things at once – always ends with people reverting back. It’s like how detox diets always lead to retox binges.


This means that making a 
permanent
 change is like building a snowball: you make the core, then roll it down the hill, adding new layers as you go.


This book will help you build your snowball. I’ll show you simple techniques to help you communicate better than ever before. This is something people often find hard to do, for all sorts of reasons:


They communicate in the order they think. This means that their main points – the ones that required most thought – appear towards the end. But their audience’s concentration reduces during their communications. So by the time they reach their main points, people have switched off.


They prepare by thinking “what do I want to say?” not “what do I want them to 
do
 after I’ve said it?”. But communication is supposed to 
cause
 something. That’s the point of it. So, their first thought should always be to identify its purpose, then work backwards to decide what needs to be said to achieve it.


They expect others to follow their thought processes, by showing how to get from Startpoint A to Conclusion Z. But what if the audience is starting at point B instead? A Londoner wouldn’t direct a New Yorker by saying “starting in London, you . . .” because the other person isn’t starting there.


How 
The Snowball Effect
 Will Improve Your Communication


The book has five sections:


A
 
Build Your Core: The Cornerstone of Successful Communication


B
 
Get More Done More Quickly: How to Save One Month per Year


C
 
Persuade More People to Say “Yes”: How to Convince Others to Do What You Want


D
 
Enjoy Your Job More: How to Make Work More Fun


E
 
Eliminate the Negatives: How to Remove Your Communication Frustrations


These contain lots of short chapters, each showing a simple technique you can use the minute you finish reading. If you like, each chapter is a new bit of snow to add onto your core.


The chapter titles show what each technique will help you achieve. You can read them in whichever order you want – each makes sense on its own. So:




Whichever you choose, I advise you start with 
Section A – Build Your Core: The Cornerstone of Successful Communication
. This shows how to build a solid foundation. It helps you create your snowball’s core. Get this right and you can build a brilliant snowball. Miss it out and the snow has nothing to stick to.


This Book Is a Great Start. But It’s Only a Start


This book will make a big difference to you. Apply the techniques and you 
will
 communicate better.


But it’s only a start. As Irish author George Bernard Shaw said: “The single biggest problem with communication is the illusion that it has taken place.” In other words, people think communication’s finished. But it often isn’t. It needs constant, rigorous, disciplined reinforcement and follow-up.


And, just as communication never ends, neither does learning how to master it. So, to help embed this book’s techniques: test them, use them, then adapt them to suit your situation.


Let’s be honest: it isn’t easy to communicate perfectly.


But it 
is
 easy to make small changes that lead to huge improvements.


And, the better you do this, the more unstoppable your snowball becomes.


Andy Bounds January 2013











SECTION A


Build your core


The cornerstone of successful communication




This section only contains one chapter. But it’s the most important one. It underpins 
everything
 in the book.


In this chapter, you’ll learn how to master the three steps of preparing communication. You’ll see:




These three steps are much more likely to work than what you do now.


It’s easier to use them than it is to keep doing what you currently do.


They’re very different to what practically everybody else does, so using them is a great way for you to stand out.




Once you’ve mastered them, you’ve built your snowball’s core. You can then roll it through the book, picking up new techniques as you go.













1


How to prepare communication that works




Great people get things 
done
.


This means their communications must cause others to 
do
 things.


However, most communication isn’t like this. Instead of causing the 
do
, it transfers understanding:




Let’s 
share
 the new strategy, 
inform
 everyone of the company’s vision, 
update
 each other, 
upskill
 the team.


During today’s meeting, we will 
discuss
 A, B, C.


The 
content
 of my presentation is X, Y, Z.




But transferring understanding only 
tells
 people things. You want your communications to 
cause
 something. That’s the point of them. They’re a means to an end, not the end. In fact, my Golden Rule of Communication is:






Communication is only effective if it causes the DO.






In other words, the only way to tell whether a communication has worked is by what the recipients 
do
 as a result. For example, a strategy roll-out is only effective if people change their behaviours. A workshop is only effective if delegates’ performance improves. An email is only effective if the reader does what you want.


It sounds so obvious. But people don’t think of this as often as they should, focusing instead on what they want to talk about. After all, how many:




Meetings go on too long and achieve nothing?


Presentations leave you thinking, “OK, I get it. But what am I supposed to do now?”


Conference calls make you think, “Well, that was a wasted hour I’ll never get back.”




So, with communication, it’s not what you 
say
, it’s what you 
cause
. After all, which meeting would you rather attend? One starting with “Today’s meeting will last 60 minutes, and the agenda is A, B, C, D and E”, or “The purpose of this meeting is to help us 
do
 X and Y. As soon as we can, we’ll finish”.




The Problem with How People Prepare Communication
Communication has three elements – the start, content, and end. And people usually prepare in that order – the start, then the content, then the end:
With emails – they write the title first, then line 1, then lines 2, 3 . . . 
With presentations – slide 1, then slides 2, 3 . . . 
With meetings/conference calls – agenda item 1, then items 2, 3 . . . 
And this approach makes sense. After all, it’s the order in which the points will be discussed.
But, even though it’s the most widespread approach, it isn’t the best. Far from it. And here’s why.
Someone recently asked for my feedback on this email:




There’s clearly a lot wrong here! It’s rude, abrupt, and impersonal. The capitals suggest shouting. It probably should have been a phone call instead.
But there’s a bigger problem. John didn’t ask the readers to 
do
 anything. So they didn’t. He broke the Golden Rule about the DO.
You see, one of the problems of preparing communications in the traditional “start–content–end” way is that, like John, people often forget to add the DO at the end. To remedy this, they need a better approach to communicating.


The 231 Approach: The Best Way to Communicate Effectively
Since the DO is the most important thing – after all, it’s the reason you’re communicating – your first step must be to start there.




Step 1: Start with the end (the DO)
When John showed me his email, we had this chat:
Me: 
So, what did you want people to 
do
 after reading it?
John: 
Send me their figures.
Me: 
I bet they didn’t, did they?
John: 
They didn’t actually. How did you know?
Me: 
You didn’t ask them to.
John: 
Well it’s obvious.
Me: 
Not to me. And, even if it was, I didn’t know 
which
 figures; or 
how
 you wanted me to send them; or by 
when
. I just thought you were shouting at me and calling me childish.
There are three steps to creating a clear DO:
1.
 Make it very specific, by asking yourself “What–When–How”:
What
: Send me this month’s figures.
When
: By the end of the week.
How
: By email.
(Note: you don’t address “why” here. As you’ll see shortly, this goes in the title.)
2.
 Introduce it pleasantly – “Please can you” is more likely to work than “I need you to”.
3.
 Give them context – and therefore motivation – by adding what you’ll do with their DO:
In John’s case, this was that, after receiving their figures, he’d input them into his system.
The bottom of John’s email now reads as:




Pretty clear, yes? And much more likely to work.
And, of course, this “DO step” isn’t just for emails:
When the last slide of your presentation says “Thank you”, your audience will say “You’re welcome”. Nice, but not the only impact you wanted. However, when the slide says “Next steps”, there tend to be some.
In meetings, when you start with the agenda, people focus on the agenda. But when you start with the meeting’s 
purpose
 – the DO – everyone focuses on that. So more gets done, and in much less time.
When writing a document, adding a box which says “Action required” on the front gets quicker, better responses.
Here’s one final tip about the DO: in John’s example, his team had to do their DO (send the figures) 
before
 John could do his (put them on the system). Sometimes, 
your
 action isn’t dependent on people doing 
theirs
 first. When this happens, go first. Research shows when you give first, people usually feel they “owe” you, so are more inclined to reciprocate quickly.
So, starting with the DO is a great start. But there are two problems with it as it stands:
1.
 There’s no benefit to his team of doing the DO. If it’s not in their interest to do it, they won’t want to do it; and
2.
 John’s email is called “Figures” – a boring title that means the email mightn’t even be opened.
The second step removes both problems.
Step 2: Create an intriguing title/intro (using AFTERs)




Your title/intro should draw people in. Your email titles should mean they get opened. Your Slide 1 should make people want to see Slide 2. Your meeting titles should ensure people attend.
Unfortunately, most titles simply 
describe
 the content. This is what happened with John – the email was about figures, so he called it “Figures”. Other titles you’ll have seen/heard thousands of times include “Update”, “Miscellaneous”, “Q2 Overview”, “Our background/process/expertise”. And, of course, good old “FYI”.
Don’t all these sound 
boring
?
To create intriguing titles/intros, use something I call AFTERs: explain why they’ll be better off 
AFTER
 hearing you (so, this is where you address the “why” question I mentioned earlier).
AFTERs are great for securing buy-in. They’re what people always want. For instance, nobody buys toothpaste because they want 
toothpaste
; they want clean teeth AFTER using it. Nobody wants a hairbrush; they want nice hair. Nobody wants a newspaper; they want the news. And 
nobody
 wants an email called “Figures”.
In John’s example, the recipients’ figures had a direct bearing on how much they got paid. This gave him the title:
“Making sure you get paid the right amount this month.”
You can imagine how quickly people responded to this, compared to “Figures”!
And again, this step applies to all communication, not just emails:
Always include the main AFTER in either the title (like John did), or a subtitle – “Excel Intermediate: 
How to save a day every month
”.
Where appropriate, reinforce it with your introductory sentence – “This communication will help us to [AFTER]”.
And, if you’re writing a business book, don’t just call it 
The Snowball Effect
! On its own, it doesn’t make sense. It’s much better to put an AFTER in the subtitle: 
Communication techniques to make you unstoppable.
Some people think it feels odd to say the 
why
 before the 
what
. But it’s important to say the 
why
 first. It instantly switches the recipient’s brain from apathetic to engaged, so they then receive your communication more positively.
This works pretty well at home too. For example, if I say to my children, “Please will you go to bed”, they start thinking “no” the minute they hear the word “bed”. In fact, they’re so pre-occupied with the loathsome word “bed” that they don’t listen to the AFTER I might have added “and I’ll give you a million pounds”.
But flip it round, start with the AFTER, and look what happens:
Me: 
Hey kids, do you want a million pounds?
Them: 
Yes please, Dad.
Me: 
OK. All you have to do is go to bed.
Them: 
Great. I’m going now.
It’s pretty expensive, but it sure does work!
One final (but very important) note about AFTERs: they can either be business related (“this will help you reduce costs”) or emotional (“this will help you feel part of the team”). As you know, people often decide based on emotion, and then justify based on logic. So, make sure your AFTERs tie into what 
really
 drives the person you’re speaking with.
So the rule is: state their AFTER 
first
, not 
after
 everything else.
Step 3: Write your content (minimum length; maximum interest)
And finally – at last! – we get to the content.




So far, the first two steps have shown:
1.
 
What
 you want them to do.
2.
 
Why
 they’ll benefit after doing so.
There’s often not much more to say. Look at John’s email now:




He probably only needs to add “Hi there” at the top, and “Best wishes, John” at the bottom, and it’s complete.
Of course, you’ll usually need to add more content than that. But the good news is that your content only has to satisfy two criteria:
1.
 Minimum length: keep asking “Do I really need to include this, if all I want is for them to do Step 1’s DO?”; and
2.
 Maximum interest: make it as interesting as possible – use humour, good visuals, stories, interactivity, and so on.
I cover both – in lots of detail – elsewhere in the book.


How to Know Your Communication Has Worked
Obviously, one measure of success is “did they do the DO?” In other words, John could say his email worked if they all sent him their figures.
And, for such a simple communication, that’s success. But, with longer, more involved communications, there’s a bit more to it. After all, you want to 
engage
 people, not just 
tell
 them what to DO.
My four criteria for successful communications are that:
1.
 It worked – you got the result you wanted. They did the DO.
2.
 You liked delivering it. When you enjoy something, you’re more likely to deliver it with passion, positivity and persuasiveness.
3.
 Your recipient(s) liked receiving it. This means they’re more likely to buy-in and agree more quickly.
4.
 It was as short as possible.
It’s easiest to remember these by thinking WITS:
W
orked
I
 liked it
T
hey liked it
S
hort
When you achieve all four, it’s a great communication.
If any are missing, it could’ve been better.
If 
all
 are missing, it couldn’t have been much worse.
Given this, you’ll know you’ve succeeded when you trigger all four.




The rest of this book has one aim: to help you be 
brilliant
 at achieving all four, every time you communicate.


Focus on 231, Not 123
So, the three steps of successful communication are:




The benefits of using this technique are 
huge
: better conversations; shorter, more interesting conference calls and meetings; presentations that work; emails that people reply to. It’s just a better way to communicate.
In fact, its only “weakness” is that some people think it sounds so obvious – basic, even – that they presume they do it more than they do.
But everyone’s so busy now, rushing from one thing to the next, that “obvious things” don’t always happen. Bad habits become the norm.
For instance, one of my customers, Julie – an organizational effectiveness expert in the financial services industry – told me this story, which I imagine will feel pretty familiar to you:
In my first week of an international assignment, my MD was worried that an imminent management conference was going to be a train wreck.
We chatted about what he wanted the conference to achieve for his business, and about why he felt it wasn’t going to happen. He then asked me to listen in on a Meeting Planners’ conference call.
But, when I did, it was 
terrible
. They just kept going round in circles. For example, they spent ages discussing how to cram a two-day coaching workshop into two hours. It just wasn’t going to work.
So, I put on my “231 hat” and asked what they wanted delegates to 
do
 differently after the conference.
Silence.
In fact, it went so quiet that I wondered whether I’d offended my new colleagues!
Fortunately, I hadn’t. But, as I probed more, they realized they didn’t know what the managers needed, and had guessed “coaching” was the answer.
Our conversation uncovered that the actual problem was that managers weren’t feeding back in ways that improved performance. So, we changed the agenda to focus on that. 
And it worked brilliantly. For the first time in years, the managers enjoyed the conference. Even better, their teams told us they loved receiving the new feedback, even when it was “developmental”!
When I reflected on this call, in many ways, it felt like we hadn’t made much of a change – all we’d done was stop focusing on the day, and start focusing on what they’d do after it.
But, then I thought again. This one tiny tweak had transformed 
everything
.


Two Final Things To Help Embed the 231 Approach
Firstly, to help you prepare all future communications, here’s this chapter’s content in a simple template:




And secondly, to see how your different communications – presentations, emails etc. – might look, turn to the Templates appendix at the back of the book.


Next Steps – In Other Words, Your “DO”
Now that you know the three 231 steps, here are a few things to do:
Use 231 on a short, simple communication today; and/or
Identify an important communication you’ve got coming up, and apply 231 to it; and
Now that you’ve built your core, add snow to it by learning techniques to help you communicate better in specific situations. Why not go to the section that’s most relevant to you (note the sections’ AFTERs titles!):
Section B – Get More Done, More Quickly: How to Save One Month per Year
Section C – Persuade More People to Say “Yes”: How to Convince Others to Do What You Want
Section D – Enjoy Your Job More: How to Make Work More Fun
Section E – Eliminate the Negatives: How to Remove Your Communication Frustrations















SECTION B


Get more done more quickly


How to save one month per year






Why This Matters
Communication takes too long, doesn’t it?
In fact, a recent McKinsey study found people spend only 39% of their week doing the day job (in other words, that’s three days per week doing “other stuff”. What a waste of time).
I’ve spent many years helping “unblock” companies’ communication. It makes a huge difference – you should see what it does to people’s engagement and productivity.
In the same way, you can “unblock” 
your
 communication, to give yourself lots more time. In fact, saving just one minute per day equates to four hours per year.
*
So, to get an extra month (approximately 200 hours) per year, you “only” need to free up 50 minutes a day.
That sounds a lot. But this section will show you how to do it. Each chapter contains a time-saving technique. Simply write your savings at the end of each chapter. Then, total your savings, and see if you’ve saved a month.
It’s a great target to have. I mean, even if you spectacularly “failed” and 
only
 freed up a fortnight per year . . . well, you’ve just freed up a fortnight per year.
And what a 
boring
 fortnight it would’ve been.


*
If you care, here’s the rationale: you work approximately 240 days per year (48 weeks × 5 days). There are 60 minutes in an hour. Therefore, to find annual hours, multiply daily minutes by 240/60 i.e. by 4. So 1 minute per day equates to 4 hours per year.











2


When you want to ensure people do what you want immediately




Imagine you have only two things on your To Do List:




TO DO LIST




1.
 Buy bread.


2.
 Restructure finances.






Which is more important? (The finances)


Which would you do first? (The bread)


Why? Well, one reason is because it’s unclear how to start with the finances. After all, the first step of buying bread is obvious – go to the shop and buy it. But the first step of restructuring your finances?


When you want to do something, you need to know where to start. In other words, you need total clarity on your 
first step
.


And, this is also critical when you’re giving actions to others. After all, when people don’t act on what you say, it can look like resistance or defiance. But it’s more often due to them not knowing what to do, and/or how to start. Being crystal clear with their first step removes this problem instantly.


But, unfortunately, people’s Calls To Action are often just rallying calls – “Restructure your finances!”, “Improve teamwork!”, “Sell more!”, “Increase engagement!” and the like. All have one thing in common: the recipients could well think, “I know that. I want to do it. But how do I go about it?”






Step 1: Identify 
what
 the First Step Is


Since people need to know where to start, prepare by working backwards: begin with your rallying call and keep saying “Before that” until you get to the first step:






Restructure my finances




Before that
, go to the bank


Before that
, make an appointment with someone at the bank


Before that
, know who that someone is


Before that
, call the bank, ask them who to speak to and book an appointment


Before that
, find the bank’s telephone number


Before that
, go to telephone directory (so this is the 
first step
)








Step 2: Be Clear 
When
 You’ll Do This First Step


You know to look in the telephone directory first but, without a deadline, there’s no urgency. So, this second step is – although important – very simple: just add a deadline – “I’ll look up the number in the telephone directory 
after work today
.”




Step 3: Ensure You Remember, By Reminding Yourself
Even if you know exactly 
what
 to do, and 
when
 to do it, you could still forget to do it, because it didn’t pop into your head at the right time (let’s face it, we’ve all experienced this before). So do something to remind yourself – for example, put a reminder in your diary or ask someone to remind you.
So, let’s look at your To Do List now:
TO DO LIST
1.
 Buy bread.
2.
 Look up the bank’s number in the telephone directory after work today (reminder’s in the diary).
3.
 Call the bank tomorrow morning, ask who I need to speak with and set up an appointment (also in diary).
This three-step process means it’s now as easy to start the finances as it is to buy bread. This makes it much more likely to happen.
And it’s the same when giving actions to others. Be clear on their first steps and deadlines, plus offer to help them remember.
So, for the other rallying calls I mentioned earlier, you might say instead:




This is a great technique for triggering instant action, but you need time and headspace to think about it. The next chapter shows you how to get a lot more of this than you have now.

















3


When you want to find the time to communicate brilliantly




Time is never about time. It’s about 
priority
.


In other words, there’s always the time you need to communicate brilliantly. The question is whether it’s a high priority for you, compared to everything else that’s going on.


If you 
do
 think it’s important, it will need to feature prominently in your Priority Place – the place where you list your important actions. This will, I guess, be your diary or To-Do List.


And you’ll often get quicker, better results if you put 
three
 reminders in your Priority Place, not 
one
. Let me explain.




How to Find the Time You Need
Important communications have three elements: the preparation, delivery and follow-up.
However, people often only put one or two of these in the diary, that is, the delivery (and sometimes the preparation).
But this means you have to fit the follow-up (and, if you haven’t diarized it, the preparation) around your priorities in your diary. In my experience, this results in people:
Prepping at home at the last minute (or not doing any at all).
Not following-up well (or ever).
This reduces your chances of a good outcome:
Poor preparation often leads to poor communication.
Zero follow-up often leads to zero action.
Admittedly, preparation and follow-up take time. But nowhere near as much as you’ll spend chasing up a communication that didn’t work. So, to prioritize your pre/post work, use three diary entries:
1.
 Put “Preparation” in the diary, at a time when (a) your brain is at its best (morning?) and (b) you’re unlikely to bump it in favor of other priorities.
2.
 Diarize your delivery as you usually would (the techniques in this book – especially this section – will reduce the time you need for this, since your communications will be much shorter).
3.
 Diarize “Follow-up” 
immediately
 after the delivery. This could well only be a five-minute diary entry, but it helps you roll the “momentum snowball” you wanted your communication to initiate. This follow-up could be as simple as a standard email that you tailor to each situation, something like:




One final thought about this chapter: it assumes you’re in control and that you’ve the time to free up more time for preparation/follow-up.
Sometimes, the world’s not like this and you find yourself having to deliver important communications with 
zero
 preparation time. The next chapter shows a very effective way to do this.

















4


When you want to impress senior audiences when you haven’t much time




Some communications are career-defining. Amaze your audience and you may never look back; underwhelm them and you may never recover.


Presentations to senior audiences can be like that. You want to impress them. You certainly won’t want to come out with any regrets.


But this isn’t always easy to do. Especially if this happens:




“The agenda’s over-run, so we’re going to have to shrink your 30-minute presentation down to five. What did you want to say?”








Recognize this? It happens pretty frequently, doesn’t it?


But, if you want to impress them, you 
have
 to react impressively. And people don’t always. For instance, some reactions I’ve seen – 
but do 
not
 endorse
 – are:




Deliver the same content six times more quickly.






This just ends up a mess.






Give handouts and say “please turn to page 8”.






They don’t. They flick through the pack and don’t listen to you.






Offer to come back another day.






This 
might
 work. But how do you know things won’t over-run then? And, how do you know you’ll be a priority to them? If you aren’t, you won’t even get on the agenda.




No, a better option is to present using the four steps “Wallop–Down–Up–Please”:




1.
 
Wallop:
 start with a big bang (often this will be showing the impact of 
not
 changing – the rationale: people buy to avoid pain).


2.
 
Down:
 make this impact worse.


3.
 
Up:
 show you have an alternative which will improve things.


4.
 
Please:
 ask them to do something.




For example:




Thanks for your time today.


We are needlessly wasting £230,000 per month on X (Wallop).


Even worse, this number will increase over the next couple of months. Projected needless waste will cost £2.8 million this year. This will increase to over £5.6 million in the next couple of years (Down).


We can reduce these costs by over 75% – that’s a potential saving of over £4 million – by implementing X [spend 2–3 minutes explaining your proposal] (Up).


Therefore, given that successful implementation could deliver £4 million of savings, please can I ask you to do Action X (Please).




See how this works? You grab their attention immediately. Your message is impossible to ignore. You stand out from other presenters (who, let’s face it, probably had a first slide saying “Background” or some such).


An added bonus: you get instant, positive feedback, in that you can tell it’s worked because they:




Agree to your request; and/or


Show interest and ask questions; and/or


Give you longer than 5 minutes!






Why Walloping Is a Time-Saving Tip
When I wrote this chapter, I wasn’t sure whether to put it in the next section “Persuade More People to Say ‘Yes’ ” or this one “Get More Done More Quickly”.
It could have been either. But, in the end, I chose here because I wanted to reinforce the huge time savings that this approach brings. It takes only minutes to do, which is much quicker than traditional preparation. In fact, a number of my customers 
always
 use Walloping as their first “preparation step” because:
It quickly gives clarity on key issues.
They can present their “Wallop version” as is, if appropriate; or can use it to help shape their next iteration.
It guides them on impactful visuals. For instance, in the above example:
The first visual could be a slide which only had one thing on it – “Needless cost: £230,000”.
A click would change this number to £2,800,000.
The next click would change this number to £5,600,000.
The next click would replace all those words with “Saving £4,000,000”.
Or, of course, you could simply just deliver the same content six times faster!
Walloping’s great for when you want to make a big impact very quickly. Sometimes though, your aim will be to make a 
permanent
 impact. This requires a different technique, which I cover in the next chapter.

















5


When you want to ensure people remember your key messages


Walt Disney used to say that his theme parks needed a “weenie” – iconic landmarks to draw visitors in – like Cinderella’s Castle at the Magic Kingdom, or the Tree of Life at Animal Kingdom (“weenies” being the sizzling sausages that entice you towards a hotdog stand). If you’ve been to any Disney park, you’ll know how eye-catching their weenies are.
Similarly, when you’re communicating, you’ll sometimes have one key message – your weenie – you want people to hear and act on. You want it to stand out amongst all your other messages, so it causes an instant, dramatic, and 
lasting
 impact on everyone who hears it.
There are lots of techniques to help draw attention to your weenie:
1.
 
Unclutter content:
 Strip out everything you can, apart from your weenie. You’ll have plenty of other opportunities to mention them.
2.
 
Say it early:
 People’s concentration dips during a communication, so say your weenie 
early
. Then continually reinforce it. Don’t build up to saying it at the end, as your audience might have switched off by then.
3.
 
Introduce it, so they know it’s key:
 Use “definite” words to introduce it, so they know it’s important: “There’s only one thing I want you to focus on this year, which is . . . ”.
4.
 
Reinforce your weenie, by highlighting the problems of 
not
 changing:
 Say what you 
don’t
 want people to do: “If we don’t change and keep doing X, Y will happen”.
5.
 
Be clear on the changes people must make:
 If your weenie means people have to act differently, say so. To ensure they understand what they’re changing from and to, start by referring to what they do now: “Whereas you’re currently doing X, I now want you to do Y instead”.
6.
 
Give crystal clear Calls To Action (maybe using “for instance”):
 You want to eliminate the chances of people 
not
 doing what you want. For example, if your weenie/key message was “please enhance our reputation”, even if everyone remembered the message, they wouldn’t necessarily know what to do about it.
Using “for instance” makes it much easier for them: “So, going forward, I want you to enhance our division’s reputation within the company. 
For instance
, you could:
Call your key contacts, and ask how we can help them more.
Think what’s been well received in the past, and do it again.
Ask colleagues how they’ve enhanced their reputation, and copy it.
Identify other divisions that impress you, and learn from them”.
7.
 
Repeat your weenie during your communication:
 There’s lots of research discussing how often people need to hear something before it sticks. Recommendations vary, but they all agree people need to hear things 
more than once
.
So, repeat your weenie. Say it in different ways. Enhance it with examples, stories, visuals, analogies, and the like.
8.
 
Repeat your weenie 
after
 your communication:
 Use follow-up communications to reinforce your key message. Ask your managers to mention it in all their team meetings. Give the “unofficial leaders” – the ones you need to get on side when you want to change things – the responsibility and motivation to keep mentioning it for you.
When you have one weenie, do all you can to get your message across (if you’ve more than one message, the next chapter shows you how to communicate them all). The key thing to remember is your audience has lots on their minds, not just your weenie. So help make it impossible for them to forget.

















6


When you want to quickly create presentations that work




Let’s face it, most presentations aren’t that good. Too long. Too many wordy slides. Too little interaction. Too dull.


And, when you look at how people prepare, you can see why. Do you recognize any of these?




Seeing what slides you currently have, and trying to base your content round that.


Leaping straight to PowerPoint, rather than thinking first.


Using the same presentation that you recently delivered to somebody else, whether it worked or not.


Delegating 100% of the preparation to someone else, and hoping they give you exactly what you want.




All these are definitively quick. But, this speed is often a false economy, since the 
slowest
 thing about communication is when it 
doesn’t
 work. So, it’s worth investing more time upfront.


This chapter shows a simple technique to make your presentations stand out from the crowd – always a good thing. It’s also a great time-saver in two ways:




1.
 It’s quicker to prepare.


2.
 It’s more likely to work first time.




The technique builds on 
Section A: Build Your Core – The Cornerstone of Successful Communication
. So, if you’ve not read that yet/recently, you might want to do so first. Anyway, here goes.




The Five Steps of Creating a Great Presentation
Successful presentations have five elements that – in effect – work down your audience’s body.




Step 1: Guide their feet (with a clear Call To Action)




So, if you want your audience’s feet to move – in other words, that they 
do
 something – you’ll have to:
1.
 Tell them they need to move; and
2.
 In which direction.
Two approaches that work well:
Approach 1: Show you’re doing something too




Approach 2: Give them options, so they choose the actions




Both approaches are very effective. I’ve used the first to help deliver results like secure multi-million-pound budgets, resolve long-lying problems, and help people get promoted. It’s also very effective when you have more actions than your audience – it makes it harder to say “no”.
The second version – where you give options – also moves the audience’s feet, because it empowers them to choose the next step.
For instance, one of my customers – a multinational telecoms company – used to deliver credentials presentations to new contacts with the last slide saying “Thank you”. This triggered zero next steps.
So, I rewrote their last slide to the one above and every presentation now triggers a next step. The customer either chooses one of the options, or says “I’m not sure about these three, but how about doing X instead?”
Step 2: Write the content
You could write the world’s best last slide but it’s only going to work if you’ve delivered a good presentation beforehand. Here’s how to create great content.
Engage their brains (with an interesting title)
The aim of your first sentence is that they want to hear your second one: “Update” won’t achieve this; “How we can increase employee engagement” will. Chapter 25 shows how to create titles that draw people in.
Light up their faces (use an attention-grabber)
You want to grab your audience’s attention right from the start. This means it’s 
your
 – not their – responsibility to get it. There are various techniques that you can use here – all of which will be familiar to you. It’s just a question of choosing the one(s) that will make 
this
 audience really sit up. For instance, you could use:
Thought-provoking questions.
A new opinion.
Humour.
An interesting fact (a good way to introduce it is to say “Did you know?”).
For example, I used a combination of these at a recent sales conference where I’d discovered beforehand that most people felt “relationship building” was the key to increasing sales.
Good morning everyone. Did you know that the Sales Executive Council recently found that only 7% of superstar salespeople are relationship-builders? The rest do something quite different.
In just three sentences, everyone was listening.
Feed their bodies (with detailed content)
It’s now time to write your content. The two rules with content are that it should be (a) interesting and (b) short. The quickest way to do this is:
1.
 Write your skeleton. This will be your presentation’s (very) few main points. These will act as your chapter headings.
2.
 Flesh out each chapter, remembering “maximum interest; minimum duration”.
3.
 Lay out your content as follows:




Structure is critical. Your audience (and you!) want to know where you’re taking them.
A good illustration: Drayton Bird is widely regarded as the world’s leading authority on direct marketing. His book 
Commonsense Direct and Digital Marketing
 has been continuously in print for 30 years and is published in 17 languages; his clients range from The Royal Mint to Peppa Pig. He once told me:
“You taught me to organize my talks far better – to signpost and tell them what they would get; remind them where we were up to as I went through my (usually very long) seminars; then remind them at the end what I had promised.
Before you, I delivered inspirational rants; now, I deliver 
organized
 inspirational rants.”
Tighten their belts (by bringing together your key points)
After you’ve delivered your content, remind the audience of your key points by showing them the contents slide again. This takes about three seconds to prepare – you simply copy and paste the slide from earlier.
Guide their feet (with a clear Call to Action)
Now that you’ve delivered your presentation, it’s time to ask them to move their feet by showing the Call to Action slide you created first. And, let’s face it, if the previous steps went well, this one will.
Presentations are a big source of frustration in business (as are meetings – check out the next few chapters for how to deal with them). But preparing in this way gives you a much better chance of achieving your twin aims of (a) succeeding (b) quickly.

















7


When you want to have better, quicker meetings and conference calls


In theory, all meetings should help you do your job better.
In theory, they should help you make better decisions.
In theory, they should speed things up.
The reality is, of course, very different. In fact, just as we’ve all heard the phrase “Death by PowerPoint”, I’m surprised there isn’t a similar one: “Inertia by meetings”.
When you think about it, meetings should be like pit-stops in a Formula One race:


They help you win.
They’re fast and energetic.
Everyone who’s there needs to be there.
Lots of pre-work means the meeting is hyper-efficient.
They’re action/improvement-focused.
Things would be worse if you didn’t have them.




Instead, they’re often more like being forced to have Huge Sandwich Breaks while you’re busy:


They interrupt what you’d prefer to be doing instead.
They’re big and bloating.
There’s only so many you can have before you start to work with less energy and focus.
You didn’t choose them. In fact, you’d choose 
not
 to have them.
99% of them are totally forgettable, even though they were expensive.
Worst of all: they make your day worse.




And do you know the weirdest thing of all? You know these meetings that people hate? Well, they organize some of them themselves.
One way to ensure your meetings are shorter and more interesting is to agree a set of guidelines that you’ll all follow. If you want universal buy-in, the key word here is “agree”, not “impose” (though you might end up with better guidelines if you suggest something and invite comment).
Examples I’ve seen work well include:
Meeting guidelines
1.
 Our meetings are short pit-stops (energized refuels that help us win), not sandwich breaks (bloating interruptions that slow us down).
2.
 The meeting is more important than you. If you can’t contribute, haven’t done the preparation or the agenda isn’t a priority for you, please don’t come.
3.
 When you’re the decision’s owner, only call a meeting if you need one. Wherever possible, make the decision yourself or through 121 discussions.
4.
 If you 
do
 need to hold a meeting:
Formulate your ideas, and circulate to all attendees beforehand, telling us exactly what you want us to do with them. In other words, don’t come unprepared, expecting us to “create by committee”.
Be open to people’s suggestions for improvement to your pre-reads.
Review all presentations/material that people want to bring before the meeting. It’s your responsibility to ensure they’re interesting/appropriate to discuss at your meeting.
Only invite people who can contribute. Don’t waste others’ time.
Only book the time you need for the decision. Don’t just insert a standard 30- or 60- minute time slot.
And, if in doubt, make it shorter.
5.
 If you’ve been invited to a meeting, but can only contribute to part of the agenda, and ask in advance for your items to be discussed first. Then, after we’ve discussed them, please feel free to leave.
6.
 For meetings that are under 10 minutes long, stand up don’t sit down.
Good points, yes? So, either use them all or – if it’s too many for people to remember – choose a few, and then make them memorable, say by making their initial letters spell a word, like PALM (see chapter 9).
As long as they improve your meeting, everyone agrees with them and – critically – 
follows
 them, guidelines are essential in ensuring consistently high standards.
All the above guidelines work well. They’re so useful that I’m going to expand on a few of them in the next couple of chapters. I’ll start by addressing the biggest time-waster of all: how to get out of meetings you don’t want to go to.

















8


When you want to only attend the meetings you need to


When people get invited to meetings, they often act as if their options are:
Option 1 – go to the meeting.
And that’s it.
You’re invited, so you have to go, right?
Well, not exactly. It’s a meeting invitation, not a court summons. When you’re invited, you actually have three options:
Option 1 – go to the meeting.
Option 2 – 
not
 go to the meeting.
Option 3 – go, but in a different way than the invite suggests.
Ignoring the third for now (we’ll come back to it later – it’s very useful), here are some questions to help decide between the first two – whether to attend or not:
1.
 Is the meeting covering something you can contribute to, feel passionate about and/or will be involved in implementing afterwards? (If it is, you should probably go.)
2.
 If you didn’t go, but received a copy of the resulting actions, would that be enough for you? (If it would, you probably shouldn’t go.)
3.
 If you didn’t go, will “Somebody Important” think badly of you? (If they will/might, you should probably go. Or at least speak to them before declining.)
4.
 Is it symbolically important you’re there? (If it is, you should probably go.)
You’ll notice the word “probably” appears a lot. That’s because the personalities and politics involved mean there are no absolute do/don’t rules. But if you decide 
not
 to go, tell the owner beforehand, saying “Thanks for inviting me”, followed by something like:
“Looking at the agenda, I think it’s best I don’t come. You’ll have lots of strong opinions on this, and mine aren’t as important.”; or
“I don’t think I can contribute much to this agenda, so won’t attend.”
If appropriate, you can always add “Please send me a copy of everyone’s actions, so I know what’s happening next”.
So, we’ve covered the first two options – whether to attend or not. Let’s now revisit the third – to attend the meeting, but in a different way. Here are a few examples you could consider, alongside what to say to help them happen.




By the way, if you’re dialing in, here’s a quick tip.
Have you noticed how there can be long silences in conference calls?
One reason is that, without visual cues, people don’t know when it’s their turn to speak. My mum – who, as a blind person, knows a lot about this – first pointed this out to me. I’ve since found it to be true. And it makes sense: if you went to a meeting where everyone had their eyes shut, it would be much harder for people to speak up.
So, when you’re dialing in – or, indeed for any conference call – remember it’s like you’re meeting with blind people. There are no visual cues. So, instead:
Use people’s names, so they know you’re talking to them.
When you speak, start with your name, so they know it’s you “It’s Andy. My thoughts on this are . . .”
Ask more closed questions – they’re easier for people to answer. You can always ask a follow-up open question to the person who responded to the closed one.
And here’s two important points to finish.
Firstly, just as this section’s techniques will help you with meetings that 
others
 organize, so too do they help others with meetings that 
you
 organize:
If someone doesn’t need to be there, don’t invite them (though consider sending the resulting actions to them afterwards).
If someone could be there but in a different way – dial-in, attend the first part only etc. – ask which they’d prefer.
And secondly, when people attend your meetings, make them 
brilliant
 (or why would they attend future ones?). The next chapter teaches you a simple way to do this, using my PALM technique.

















9


When you want to prepare for meetings in the right way


Have you noticed how most agendas contain too many topics that make things take longer than they should?
When people prepare for meetings by starting with the agenda, it means they’re only thinking about what to 
discuss
, not what they want to 
achieve
. And, because it’s easy to find a reason to discuss pretty much any topic, this makes the agenda too long and full of non-essentials.
Instead, a much better approach is to prepare using PALM:




And you need all four:
Without the 
P
, you don’t know your end-point. And, as American psychologist David Campbell said:
“If you don’t know where you’re going, you’ll end up somewhere else.”


Without the 
A
, there’s not enough structure. The meeting becomes a free-for-all.
Without the 
L
, meetings overrun and/or are needlessly long. After all, when you say a meeting will last an hour, it does. But when you say it will last “a maximum of an hour”, it’s often less.
Without the 
M
, decisions take longer. And while it might seem a good idea to invite more people, look at the increased number of agreements this means you need:






So, an example would be:




You can see why this works:
It’s set up to be an output-focused, fast pit-stop; not an indigestible, bloated break.
It helps ensure the meeting generates actions (the next chapter has more on this).
People prepare for it better. Did you notice the comment about the pre-reads: “essential for our meeting”. You’re adults having a professional work meeting, not schoolchildren having a chat. People need to respect other attendees’ time, and do the pre-work. I’ve seen people make this point in different ways – one that sticks out is, “If you don’t prepare, don’t come”. So, choose your own approach, but be clear that preparation is a must-do, not a do-if-you-want.















10
When you want to ensure meetings generate actions, not just discussion topics
Some meetings are little more than glorified chats. Lots discussed, but not one action arising. These are a drain on your time – especially if they happen every week. Team updates, anyone?
To resolve this, you can:
Keep the content the same, or change it; and/or
Keep the duration the same, shorten it, or just stop having the meeting.
In my experience, the worst option is usually to keep both content and duration the same. After all:
If you waste 
an hour
 every week at meetings like this, stopping them would save you 
one week
 per year (to remind yourself how I worked this out, please see this section’s introduction).
Therefore, if these meetings involve say 26 people, stopping them would free up 26 working weeks – that’s half an employee! – for no cost or hassle. Even better, none of you would have to waste time in this rubbish meeting any more.
Turning Discussions Into Actions
You might well still want/need to meet for at least some time. So, to make things more effective, identify how to take 
less
 time to trigger 
more
 actions.
Here’s one simple solution: after every discussion topic, ask questions to identify the action to take, focusing on three key elements – 
who’s
 doing 
what
, by 
when
. For example:
Who:
“Which of us should take an action, to move this forward?”
“Who’s responsible for progressing this?”
What:
“What action should we take as a result of this conversation?”
“What are our next steps here?”
When:
“What’s the deadline for this action?”
“When do you want to update us on your progress?”
You’ll notice these questions don’t appear much in update meetings. That’s one reason they can be so dull, pointless and an unrelenting drain on your time. The next chapter shows how to transform these into action-generating sessions. 
But with updates – or indeed 
any
 meeting – unless you ask questions like these, people won’t be clear on their actions. 
 
And, when actions aren’t clear, they don’t happen.
Making Success Inevitable
However, even if you 
are
 clear on your actions, they 
still
 might not happen. Work sure does have a habit of getting in the way.
So document the actions (what’s happening next) – not the minutes (what was discussed) – and send a follow-up email. Something like:




Tips like this really work. I was recently discussing “Meetings” with one of my cus­tomers, Debbie Harrison (Debbie specializes in learning, leadership and talent development, and has helped some of the world’s largest companies revolutionize their people’s abilities and motivation). She’s used my techniques to overhaul how various companies conduct their meetings. She told me it 
always
 improves things, the main benefits being:
1.
 Meetings consistently achieve the desired outcome.
2.
 Less wasted time.
3.
 More productivity.
4.
 Better engagement.
5.
 Increased job satisfaction (by removing something people used to hate).















11


When you want to run punchy, interesting and effective update meetings (or not have them)


Update meetings often swap information, but little else.
And, let’s face it, they’re often plain dull. They’re a series of lengthy monologues, rather than value-adding discussions. They’re also too long.
In fact, here’s an idea: don’t have one for the next two weeks. Meet again in Week Three and start with “Well, did you miss them?”
Depending on the response, either stop them entirely, or change them to only include the bits people missed. After all, meetings should be about usefulness, not habit.
Now, I recognize that stopping them might be a step too far for some teams. In fact, one of my customers once gave me this brief:
“I want us to 
meet
 regularly.
I want us to 
update
 each other.
But I don’t want us to have 
update meetings
.”
So, I devised a new approach that reduced their 60-minute meetings down to 10, made them more interesting, generated more discussion, and always led to positive next steps.
All I did was suggest that they replace update meetings with LION meetings, where each attendee has one minute to present their LION:




LIONs work well because:


Giving your team a time limit ensures they’re punchy, interesting and focused (this is better than giving them a maximum number of slides, since that just encourages them to write small).
Asking them to do an 
I
 and 
O
 means they put both sides of what’s happened, rather than being only positive or negative or, more boringly, neutral – “I’m working on X”.
The 
O’
s subtitle “A current challenge 
they’d like help with
” ensures they come with a solution-focus, rather than just grumbling about something.
The 
L
 and 
N
 ensures momentum and accountability: they have to look forward with their 
N
s
,
 then report back with their 
L
s.
If you find templates useful, here’s one to share with your team:




And here’s an example of how one might look:




One final point: if you’re doing a follow-up email to your LION meeting, please don’t call it “FYI”. It wipes out all your good work. The next chapter explains why FYIs don’t work, and what to do instead.

















12


When you want to get a quick response to an FYI email


Here are five questions. You have two seconds to answer each:




How did you get on?
The answers are:
In
Water
The same
None
It hasn’t
Did you get them all? Or did you say:
Out
Milk
Metal
24m
2
“Really? I never knew that.”


The Problem With Speed
We make such quick decisions sometimes that we sacrifice accuracy for speed. And while we don’t have to get everything 100% right, things do need to be “right enough”.
When you spend the “right enough” amount of time preparing communications, you get things “right enough” first time. This saves lots of follow-up, grief and hassle.
It sounds so obvious. But, here’s another quick quiz:




How did you get on?
By the way, the answers 
should
 be no, no, no, no and no




Getting Good Responses to FYI
S


I want to look again at Quiz 2’s FYI question.


Why? Because FYIs are big communication time-wasters, for both you and the recipient. To explain this, let’s look at it in a different context.




Scenario 1:
 Mrs. X has a book she thinks Mr. Y might want to read. She runs to his desk, throws the book at him, says “Read this” and walks away.




Doesn’t that seem odd behaviour? Why would Mrs. X do something like this? What’s Mr. Y going to think? What’s he supposed to do with the book? Why will he think she’s given it to him? Will he be grateful to her? Confused by her? Will he read it?




Scenario 2:
 Mrs. X emails Mr. Y an attachment with the message “FYI”.




If you didn’t work in the corporate world, you’d think this second scenario was weird. But it’s actually the same thing as Scenario 1. In both cases, somebody has thrown something at somebody, saying “Read this”.


When you send something “FYI”, what are you expecting the recipient to do? Read it? File it? Absorb it? Act on it? Email you their views? Any of these? None? Does it matter? Will they care? Do you?


Or, as I once read, when you send an FYI, do you really mean “You’re not interested in this, but I’ve covered my back by sending it to you”.




Powerful Alternatives to FYI
The best alternatives to FYI contain:
1.
 A scene-set, to give context; and
2.
 An action, to give direction.
So, alternatives would include:
“The attached relates to X that we discussed yesterday. Have a look and tell me if you think it changes anything.”
“I received this from Emma, and think it might help us with X. Check out section 3. Should we change our approach?”
“Head Office sent the attached to me, concerning X. I haven’t time to read it now, but think it might interest you, because of Y. Please have a read and feedback anything you think I need to know.”
These take a little longer than “FYI” – though not much, to be honest – but are much better for the reader, and therefore for you.
And, of course, when you 
receive
 FYIs, just reply with “Thanks for this. What would you like me to do with it?”
After all, you would 
never
 throw a book at someone, saying “Read this”. So why do the equivalent by email?

















13


When you want to empty your inbox




Cluttered inboxes are a drain on your time, your focus and your will to live.


And, as you’ve just seen, when quite a few of your emails are called “FYI”, it’s even worse.


It’s imperative you learn how to unclutter them. The McKinsey study I referred to in this section’s introduction found that people spend 28% of their week reading/answering emails. That’s over 500 hours per year. Or, if you have a 30-year career, that’s eight years of it!


The good news is, there are only three possible causes of having a full inbox, in that you have emails you’ve:




1.
 Never opened; and/or


2.
 Opened more than once – “It’s not urgent. I’ll deal with it later”; and/or


3.
 Opened, dealt with and left there.




This means there are only three steps to emptying your inbox:




1.
 Receive fewer emails.


2.
 
Never
 look at emails twice.


3.
 Remove them when you’ve finished with them.




Here are simple ways to achieve all three . . . 






How to Receive Fewer Emails


The best ways to do this are to:






Send fewer emails


Your inbox will contain replies to your emails. Could any of yours have been phone calls or chats instead?


I first recommended this approach to someone who’d said “I don’t have time to implement your techniques. I’ve received 127 emails during the 90 minutes we’ve been in here”. I asked him to look how many began with “RE”, to which he counted 88. In other words, 
two-thirds
 had been people replying to him.


In summary: send less; you receive less.










Proactively request less emails


Where appropriate, contact people who send you emails that you don’t want/need and (politely and carefully) tell them not to send them.


Do so by explaining the benefits 
to them
 of changing their approach: “My inbox is rammed. I’ll be able to reply much more quickly if you just pick up the phone/send me a text.”








How to Ensure You 
Never
 Look at Emails Twice
If you open, close and leave an email in your inbox, you are 
definitely
 going to look at it again.
Even more annoyingly, because you deal with important emails straight away, the ones you keep looking at are often the unimportant ones that are never important enough to deal with.
The only way to stop doing this is by never opening, closing and leaving it there. Instead, you have these choices – my five Ds:






How to Remove Emails Once You’ve Finished with Them
This is now straightforward, because each 
D
 results in the email leaving your inbox.
Even better, each 
D
 only takes 30 seconds max. – often, much less. So, in the next 20 minutes, you could remove at least 40 emails.

















14


When you want to see how much extra time you’ve now got


Let’s see how much time this section will save you. Copy each chapter’s time saving into this table and add them up:






When you add up your savings, you’ll see you’ve a pretty big total. Remember, 50 minutes a day equals 200 hours a year. That’s an entire month!
There’ll never be a better opportunity to start saving this time than now, when it’s fresh. And, the great thing is, because you communicate all the time, it’s relatively easy to identify the first time you can try it (which, as you saw with the chapter 2 “Buy bread” example, is critical).
So, in the next few minutes, you’ll be talking, emailing, writing  . . .  Which technique will you use first?









SECTION C
Persuade more people to say “yes”
How to convince others to do what you want




Why this matters
Your life sure would be a whole lot easier if everyone just said “yes” to you all the time.
You’d have the job of your dreams, pots of money, and you’d never feel stifled, frustrated or bored.
I guess your life’s not like that?
The fact is, it can be extremely hard to get a “yes”. And it’s not surprising. Other people are busy. They have their own priorities and agendas, which you may not fit into. They’ll have hundreds of ideas to consider, not just yours.
Given these challenges, you can see why people sometimes resort to using their authority to persuade – shouting at their children, pulling rank at work, and so on.
But, although this might get a “yes”, it’s often not an enthusiastic one. This reminds me of a line from the film 
The Break Up
, where Jennifer Aniston’s character says to Vince Vaughan, her husband “I want you to 
want
 to do the washing up”.
Persuasion’s like this. You want people to 
want
 to do what you ask.
Fortunately, as you’re about to discover, there are many simple ways you can get much better at this.









15


When you want to understand what really motivates people


People see things so differently from us, that it can be hard to understand their thinking.
I was reminded of this the other day when I told my three-year-old I’d brush her hair. She patted my arm and said in a very patronizing voice: “No you won’t. Daddies don’t brush hair. When you’re older, and your eyebrows are smaller, then you’ll be a woman. And 
then
 you can brush my hair.”
I’m not quite sure where she got this new view of human biology from, but I await my forthcoming female years with interest . . . 
This story is an example of how people can read all sorts of weird and wonderful things into what they hear you say. It can sometimes be baffling how much they misinterpret you. It’s not their fault. It’s not yours either. The communication just hasn’t worked.
But, to get a “yes” from them, it’s important to understand what drives them. And this often isn’t what you think it is. Keeping with the hair theme:
To a wig salesman, I appear an ideal customer (one quick glance at my photo will explain why).
Except I’m not.
You see, hair and I don’t get on. Never have. I’ve no interest in owning a wig.
Even though I 
need
 one, I don’t 
want
 one.
Instead, a wig salesman’s best bet is to find someone who 
wants
 a wig. This could well be someone who already has lots of hair.
So people’s decisions are often motivated – rightly or wrongly – by what they 
want
, not what they 
need.
This means that trying to persuade by explaining that someone 
needs
 something often doesn’t work. It’s better to show your idea helps them get more of what they 
want
:
“You 
need
 to send me your update” is not as effective as “Let’s get this project off your desk as soon as possible. To help me do this, please could you send me your update”.
“You 
need
 to attend that meeting” is not as persuasive as “I want to make it easier for you to make quicker decisions. To help with this, there’s a meeting next week which . . .”
Instead of “You 
need
 to reply to my proposal”, try “To make sure you achieve your objectives as quickly as possible, please can I ask you to hit reply and . . .”
Communicating like this can sometimes feel weird, especially if you’re convinced they do 
need
 it. But, communication’s all about the audience, not you. And when people email me saying they “need me” to do something, I’m always tempted to reply (but am yet to do so) with “Well, 
I need
 
you
 to learn some manners”.
This chapter’s useful in that it helps explain what motivates people. The next chapter builds on this, by showing what to 
say
, so you actually 
do
 motivate them.















16


When you want to say things that excite people




People are more likely to say “yes” when they see it’s in their interest to do so. This means it’s important to:




1.
 Know what’s important to them; and


2.
 Align your proposal to this.




This sounds obvious; but most people don’t do this well. Or consistently. Or 
ever
. If they were better at it, you wouldn’t hear such phrases as:




Why should I do that?


It’s too expensive.


This meeting is tedious. Why am I here?


I haven’t time to respond to this.


I know what you want me to do, but it’s not a priority to me right now.






Be Benefits-Based, not Features-Focused
To engage people, focus on what 
benefits
 them. The best way to define what I mean by a “benefit” is to contrast it with its opposite, a “feature”.
A “feature” 
describes
 something. A “benefit” explains how someone’s 
future is enhanced
 by it:
“This toothpaste is minty” = feature: it describes the toothpaste.
“This toothpaste will help your breath smell nice” = benefit: it shows why you’ll be better off after using it.
So, you buy because of the benefits (your beautiful breath), not the features (the mintiness).
Similarly, if someone’s résumé said “I’ve worked in many different sectors. Do you want me?”, you’d say “no”. That’s a feature of them; you care about the 
benefit to you
 of them working in different sectors.
Or when a meeting’s agenda said “We’ll be discussing X. Do you want to come?”, you’d say “no” unless you happened to care passionately about X (and how often does 
that
 happen?!)
Sometimes, people try to make things sound beneficial, by using wonderful adjectives. But “This toothpaste is the mintiest on the planet” is still not a benefit. It’s 
describing
 how uniquely wonderful the toothpaste is. And, because it’s 
describing
, it’s a feature – albeit a unique, glorious one.
I’m not saying features are irrelevant. In fact, if some are missing – like, for example, “suitable experience” – you won’t be considered a viable alternative in the first place. But these features are like a gambler’s table stakes: they let you play the game, but they don’t mean you’ll 
win
 the game.
Here are three simple rules about what makes a good benefit:
1.
 They focus on the other person, so usually contain the word “you”.
2.
 It’s only a benefit if the other person – 
not you
 – perceives it as such.
3.
 Benefits happen in the future, because they haven’t happened yet. This future-focus led me to suggest the word “AFTERs” instead of “benefits”. In other words, why are they better off AFTER communicating with you? I’ve found the word “AFTERs” helps people focus on improving the other person’s 
future
 (see chapter 1 for more on AFTERs).
These three elements help you see whether you’re saying things others will find in their interest. For instance:




There are many benefits 
to you
 of knowing what the other person perceives to be a benefit. The next two chapters cover two of the best ones:
How to align your agenda with theirs.
How to persuade them to say “yes” more easily.















17


When you want to align your agenda to everyone else’s




Have you ever been bored during someone else’s communication?


Has anyone ever been bored during yours?


It’s notoriously hard to align your agenda with someone else’s. But failing to do so causes big problems – people don’t buy-in, strategies don’t land, stakeholders don’t engage, teams don’t function, families argue . . . the list is endless.


In short, if you don’t adapt your messages, people aren’t persuaded. Communications take too long. They don’t work.






Identify “Why That’s Good”


To help align agendas, prepare your communications by playing the “Why’s That Good Game”, where you imagine:




Your audience saying “
Why’s that good?
” to your agenda; and


You replying with
 “Well, it’s good for you because”.




So, for a leader outlining her new strategy:








Leader: 


Here’s the new strategy.






Team: 


Why’s that good?






Leader: 


Well, it’s good for you because you’ll know the direction we’re going.






Team: 


Why’s that good?






Leader: 


Well, it’s good for you because you’ll know how your role is changing.






Team: 


Why’s that good?






Leader: 


Well, it’s good for you because you’ll learn some simple changes to make, to help you be more successful and to enjoy your job more.








See how it works? The bottom line (about success and enjoyment) is much more compelling than the first (the strategy).


This example’s very 
positive.
 I used “why’s that 
good
” to show what someone could 
gain.


Instead, you can go the other way. After all, “fear of loss” is often the strongest motivator. So, you could be 
negative
, using “why’s that 
bad
 if I 
don’t
 hear this?”:








Leader: 


Here’s the new strategy.






Team: 


Why’s that bad if I don’t hear this?






Leader: 


Well, it’s bad for you because you won’t know what’s going on.






Team: 


Why’s that bad?






Leader: 


Well, it’s bad for you because you’ll make the wrong decisions.






Team: 


Why’s that bad?






Leader: 


Well, it’s bad for you because you’ll get left behind the rest of us.










Say the “Best Bit” First
In both examples, the last sentence is the most persuasive. So, to trigger instant buy-in, start at the end and work backwards, saying your agenda (in this case, “the strategy”) last. For instance, with the first example:
“I want to show you simple changes to make, to help you be more successful, and to enjoy your job more. To help you do this, I’m going to show you how your role is changing, by outlining the direction we’re going. I’ll do this by sharing our new strategy with you.”
And using the second:
“I want to make sure you don’t get left behind the rest of us because of making the wrong decisions. This might happen if you don’t know what’s going on this coming year. So, I’m going to give you all the info you need, by running through our new strategy.”
So, the same topic (new strategy) can lead to two benefits – a positive-increaser (success/enjoyment) and a negative-reducer (not getting left behind). You would use the most compelling and appropriate one to introduce your topic.
A word of warning about negatives: they’re powerful and – as the saying goes – “with great power comes great responsibility”. Sending an email called “This will stop you getting fired” won’t help your Employee Engagement scores much.
The message here is simple but powerful: start your communications with 
their
 agenda, and 
they’re
 more likely to buy into yours.
The next chapter builds on this, by showing how to ensure they do.















18


When you want to get an enthusiastic “yes” very quickly




When someone wants you to agree to something, you’re more likely to when:




You know that saying “yes” will benefit you; and


“No” doesn’t seem to be an option.




Unfortunately, people often omit one or both of these, which is why they hear “no” so frequently. To show what I mean, imagine you were one of the following three people.








Situation 1: The direct report


You’re extremely busy, working on an important document with a tight deadline. One of your direct reports interrupts you, asking “Have you got five minutes?”


There are only two responses you can give: “No, not now”, or “Yes, but please be quick”.


Not what they wanted.










Situation 2: The salesperson


You’re buying new IT. The salesperson says “Here’s our proposed IT system covering everything we discussed. It will cost you £100,000. Would you like to buy it?”


You 
might
 say “Yes please”, but you’re more likely to give one of two responses: “Maybe, but not exactly as you’re proposing” or “Maybe, but could you do anything about the price?”


Again, not what they wanted.










Situation 3: The child


You’re a soccer-obsessed, 12-year-old boy. Your father says “Do you want to go to bed tonight at 8pm?”


This time there’s only one answer: “No”.








BO: A Better Way to Get a “Yes”


Can you see why these three situations didn’t work? In each:




It wasn’t in your interest to say “yes”. There were 
no
 reasons why you should agree (in fact, there were many why you shouldn’t); and


Each request was a yes/no question, meaning you could reply “no”. So you did.




So, what should people do instead? Well, one effective technique is to use 
BO
, which stands for:




B
 – Benefits: explain why it’s in their interest to say “Yes”. These must be the benefits from 
their
 perspective, not yours, so they see they’re better off agreeing with you.


O
 – Options: give them 2–3 choices as to how they accept. This gives them a yes/yes choice, rather than a yes/no. In other words, don’t ask 
if
 they want it; ask 
which
 they want.




Now let’s apply BO to three situations, but this time imagining it’s 
you
 who’s asking.




Situation 1: The direct report


Want five minutes with your boss? Try:




“I’m keen to finish that report you asked for, but could do with five minutes with you to discuss a couple of points in the Executive Summary. Have you got the time now, or would you prefer later today?”




This turns the boss’s thinking from “Do I give him five minutes?” to “
When
 do I give him five minutes?“






Situation 2: The salesperson


Looking to sell an IT solution? Go with:




“We’ve agreed this IT will help your business be more efficient. There are a few ways we could progress this. You’ll get best results if we do everything we’ve discussed today. This will cost £100,000. But I know money is tight. So, a cheaper option would be to remove standalone phases 3 and 6, which would reduce the price to £65,000. Which do you think will be most appropriate?”




This changes “Do I buy?” to “
Which
 do I buy?”




Situation 3: The child
And now imagine you have a soccer-loving son. This is easy for me – I do. You’ll get much more joy with:
“Jack, let’s play soccer tomorrow before everyone else is up. Obviously this means we’ll need a good night’s rest before the Big Game. So, when do you want to go to bed – 7.30pm or 8pm?”
This works every time. Believe me, I know: I use BO to get Jack to go to bed every day!
In fact, BO works extraordinarily well in pretty much every situation. It’s great for conversations, quick requests and as your final line when you’re seeking agreement. But, it’s “only” a persuasive couple of sentences. And before you say your BO, you first have to prove you can bring the other person the value they want. The next chapter shows how to do this.

















19


When you want to prove you’re someone’s best option


There are famous stories of expensive missed opportunities:
Many record companies turned down the Beatles; like Decca, who said “The Beatles have no future in show business”.
Twelve publishers rejected J.K. Rowling’s 200-page script for Harry Potter.
Disney once sacked John Lasseter – he’s now their Chief Creative Officer.
But you don’t hear too many of these stories. Why? Because the only time you do is when the “no” goes on to become a spectacular success elsewhere.
So, people often find it safer to say “no” than “yes”. After all, which is more likely to be flagged as a mistake?
Agreeing to something that fails, and makes you rue the day you said “yes”? Or,
Rejecting an opportunity that therefore never happens, so nobody can say whether it was a bad idea to turn it down?
When you look at it like that, you can see why people often say “no”. They think it just does less harm. And this makes it very hard to persuade certain people to say “yes” to you.
So, you have to 
prove
 they’ll benefit by agreeing. After all, it’s easier to persuade people when they view 
you
 as an expert in an area 
they
 aren’t. This helps them know their best option is to do what you advise. In effect, they let you make the decision for them. Here are a few ways to do this.






This table isn’t an exhaustive list – no doubt you can think of others – but contains the type of thing you should be looking for. Remember:
No proofs – likely to get a “no”.
Generic, bland proofs – still “no”.
Some of the table’s proofs – a “yes” is much more likely.
How many proofs do you need? Well, as you’ll see in the next chapter “When you want to make a sale”, it’s less than people think. Think quality not quantity. The aim is as few as possible. So, start with your most persuasive. If that works, you only needed one. If not, go to the second, then third.















20


When you want to make a sale


If you work in sales, I imagine:
1.
 You have stretching targets.
2.
 You’re short of time.
So I wanted to create a short chapter to address both of these, by explaining my five steps to winning a sale. To keep this chapter as punchy as possible:
Some of the steps are expanded on elsewhere in the book. If you want to read more, I’ve added the chapter references for you; and
The next chapter shows how to incorporate these steps into your proposals and sales presentations.
Before running through the steps, here are my three Golden Rules of Sales:
Rule #1: The customer is the most important person, so give her the information she needs to make the best decision.
Rule #2: The customer will buy when she 
knows
 you’re the one best placed to improve her 
future
.
Rule #3: When the customer says “Yes”, shut up.
These rules mean we no longer use some traditional sales messages. After all, when you say:




Customers see:






ABCDE: The Simplest Way to Sell More
My five steps of selling are:




Looking at each in turn:
AFTERs – Find the customer’s desired future
Since selling is all about helping the customer achieve their desired 
future
 (Rule #2), start by finding what this 
future
 is. In other words, why they’ll be better off AFTER working with you. (Chapter 31 has much more detail on AFTERs.)
The two best ways to uncover their AFTERs are by 
asking
 and 
guiding
 them:
Asking
 means using Future-Based Questions (FBQs) to uncover their desired AFTERs, like:
What are you looking to achieve?
What are your goals/objectives?
How will you know our work has been a success?
FBQs work well, as long as the customer knows the answers. Sometimes, a better approach is:
Guiding
, where you help shape their thinking, either by:
Splitting their future into manageable bits, to help them focus. For example, I could say to a sales director: “There are three elements to ‘selling’: having the right mindset; seeing the right buyers; and saying the right words when in front of them. Which of these do your people need most guidance with?” Or,
Using your research/insights to open their eyes to new possibilities: “The Sales Executive Council found that 91% of buyers don’t think value-to-price is the biggest driver of customer loyalty. This means your current focus on reducing price probably isn’t the best approach. Let’s discuss a couple of alternatives to see what we can help you achieve.”
Once you’ve uncovered the AFTERs:
Repeat them back to the customer, ensuring they agree; and
Ask the customer to prioritize them. This tells you their #1 AFTER, which is very important information for the rest of the sale. See the next chapter on proposals/presentations for more on this.
Worked example – step 1
Let’s assume that you uncover they only have one AFTER: to successfully export into Belgium.
Be certain – State you can help them
Customers want to feel 
certain
 you can help them. So when you’re 
certain
 you can deliver their AFTERs, say so: “We can 
definitely help you
 with that” or “I’m 
completely confident
 we can help you achieve those objectives.”
Whereas the 
A
 of 
ABCDE
 – uncovering AFTERs – takes a while, step 
B
 takes 10 seconds max. It’s just one sentence. But it’s important: it starts to build their feelings of certainty.
Worked example – step 2
“We can 
definitely help you
 export into Belgium.”
Convince – Prove you can help them
If you’re very lucky, when you say step 
B
’s “We can definitely help you”, the customer will say “Great. Let’s start”. If this happens, remember Golden Rule #3 – the customer’s said “Yes”, so shut up! Get the order book out and crack on.
In all my life, this has only happened to me once. (It was great when it did!) But in practice your next step will be to convince them that you 
can
 definitely help them.
There are lots of ways to do this – chapter 19 discussed lots of them. In our example though, some could be:
Worked example – step 3
The case study of company X who you helped expand into Belgium.
A testimonial: “Your Company helped us build our market share in Belgium from 0% to 12% in two years”. Mrs. X, job title Y, company Z.
A list of all the customers you’ve helped with Belgium and/or exports.
Your process for entering Belgium, and why it’s different/better than everybody else’s.
Free advice about Belgium, to show you know things that they don’t.
Deal with objections – Remove their concerns
Customers will probably have some concerns about buying from you – your price, your experience, your impressive competition, they might feel it’s easier to do nothing, and so on.
You 
must
 address these. If you don’t, they might never get dealt with. This means they won’t buy.
There are two ways to uncover, and then remove, their concerns:
Ask them what they are: “So, we know that we can help. But it’s what 
you
 think that counts! What are your concerns about us working together on this project?”
Use your experience/common sense to guess, and weave these into your sales discussion: “If I was you, I might be worried about X. Is that the case?” or “Some of our best customers were originally concerned about X. Are you?”
Then, of course, you have to persuasively remove these concerns (chapter 53 has loads of techniques for doing this). After all, if someone said they were worried about cost, you wouldn’t follow that with “Yes, you’re right. It is a lot”!
Work example – step 4
“If I was you, I might be concerned that we haven’t worked together before, and that giving such an important campaign to a new partner is risky. Is that the case?”
[Yes, it does feel uncomfortable]
“Well, I totally understand that. In fact, a couple of our best customers originally thought the same thing. Do you mind if I explain how we can overcome this?”
Electives – Offer options that they can choose between
When you give someone a “Yes/No” choice (“Our proposal will cost you £120,000 – do you want it or not?”), you can’t complain if they choose “No”.
So, offer the customer 2–3 different options, and work with them to choose the one they feel is best for them. Use chapter 18’s BO approach to do this.
Also, before giving the price, remind them of the value, so the price then looks the excellent value for money that it is.
Worked example – step 5
So, we’ve agreed your projected returns from our work will be £1–2 million in the first year. There are a couple of ways we can help you achieve this: we could do X for £50,000 or Y for a total of £75,000. Which option do you prefer?
By now, you might be thinking ABCDE sounds obvious. After all, all I’m saying is that you find what the customer wants to achieve, prove you can help them get there, and ask how they want to proceed.
However, knowing the steps and doing them 
every time
 are two very different things. This quick self-test might help. How does your company stack up?
Self-test
1.
 How often do you know a customer’s desired AFTERs?
Every sale
Most sales
If there’s time to find out
Never
2.
 How many times have you gone for a sale which, in retrospect, you shouldn’t have? On these occasions, if you’d asked better questions, might you have pulled out sooner?
3.
 How often do you state 
with certainty
 that you can give the customer what they want? Do you say it as early as possible in the process?
4.
 When proving you can do the job:
How often do you talk about your process (not persuasive) compared to giving third-party evidence that you can deliver results (very persuasive)?
If you use third-party evidence, how often do you mention it early in your sales communications? (I’ve seen them first appear on page 50 of an 80-page proposal. They should be prominently placed early, including in Executive Summaries).
Are your most persuasive proofs easy to spot, or are they hidden in the middle of sections/paragraphs/slides?
5.
 Does every salesperson in your company always work hard to uncover the customer’s objections? Do you have a standard approach for removing them?
6.
 Do you always offer options?
7.
 Does your marketing material (website, brochures and so on) follow this approach? Or do they focus more on describing your company and services?
Unless you scored 100%, you can be even more AFTERs-y than you are now. And doing so makes a huge difference to even the best people. For instance, one of my customers – Marc Berendes – was very successful before I met him:
He’d reached the top of commercial finance within a global division at a young age.
He’d then changed career to become general manager of the fourth largest affiliate worldwide, aged just 40.
His three children – all still at primary school – each speaks four languages.
So, a successful guy! But he found AFTERs-based selling took him up another level: “AFTERs completely changed the way we presented offers to customers. After taking my new job and witnessing the ineffectiveness of our offer presentation, we changed everything, so it became based on the customer and their AFTERs. This has helped us to win many more deals.”
The great thing about selling is you can always improve. Which one thing can you take from this chapter to help you be more successful?















21


When you want to write a winning proposal or sales presentation




Some of the most boring communications I’ve ever seen have been proposals and sales presentations – overlong, too detailed, minimal focus on the customer, similar to the competition’s, and similar to proposals the sales team sent to a different customer last week.


It would be a real shame if any communication was this ineffective. But, with something that’s supposed to convince a customer to choose you ahead of the competition? Well, that’s more than a shame.


This chapter shows how to bring your content together in a persuasive, compelling structure so the customer knows you can help them. You’ll notice that this structure follows ABCDE described in the previous chapter.


I’ve split it into the two common situations where you:




Are starting a sales communication from scratch; and


Have a first draft in your hand, and need to improve it quickly.




But, before that, here are three important guidelines with proposals.








1.  Don’t write proposals too early


It’s usually easier to convince someone verbally than in writing.


So keep talking with the customer until you’ve both agreed a way you could work together. And only 
then
 send a proposal which confirms your discussions.


The alternative – less discussion and an earlier proposal – means the document has to do most of the convincing. This isn’t as likely to work. By definition, the proposal will be longer and probably contain irrelevant content.










2.  Ask the customer about content


The easiest way to persuade a customer is by giving them the information they need to make a decision in your favor.


And the easiest way to discover what this information is? 
Ask
 them (“What infor­mation do you want to see? Would you like it detailed or in overview?” And so on).










3.  Agree follow-up times in advance


Recognize this?


You send a proposal. The customer says they’ll get back to you. They don’t. Do you chase (and feel like you’re pestering) or wait (and feel like you’re powerless, and that you’ve been forgotten).


It’s far easier to agree 
before
 you send the proposal when you’ll speak 
after
 it: “I’ll create a proposal based on what we’ve agreed and send it over tomorrow. When would you suggest we discuss it?”






Creating Sales Communications from Scratch
Sales communications often start with “About us” and end with “How we can help you”. In other words, we talk about us first, and the customer second. This doesn’t work:
It’s boring.
The most interesting thing comes at the end, when they’ve probably switched off.
Your competition probably did exactly the same thing.
The customer perceives that you think you’re more important than they are.
The following table shows how to structure your sales communications – both proposals and presentations – in a better way. By way of example, I’ve assumed that the customer has three AFTERs which, in order of priority, are to:
1.
 Increase exports into Belgium.
2.
 Enhance staff engagement.
3.
 Remove the needless inefficiencies that are wasting people’s time.
Why not print off one of your recent sales communications, compare it with this table, and see how it stacks up?








This table is very useful to help prepare a proposal from scratch. But here’s what to do when you’ve been asked to improve something that’s already written . . .


Editing First Drafts Quickly
Recognize any of these?
Someone sends you their slides at 10pm the night before your presentation.
A colleague supplies the information you requested in the wrong format, a couple of days 
after
 the deadline you gave them.
It’s no wonder we often have to edit sales communications so quickly!
To do this, review them through the customer’s eyes (see the left-hand column below), and make the necessary adjustments (in the right):



















22


When you want to stand out from the crowd




The previous two chapters looked at how to make more sales, including how to improve your sales communications.


Another key component of selling anything – yourself, your ideas, your proposals – is that you stand out from the crowd.


After all, to convince someone to choose you, you must appear different to their alternatives. If you’re not, you won’t “win”. 


Here are six approaches to help you do this really well. One of my customers christened these the Super Six.








Method #1: Provide “wow” moments


People want amazing experiences that they remember for years. So, go the extra mile to provide them with “wow” moments.


I use the phrase “extra mile” deliberately. Most people think they do this. They don’t, or it wouldn’t be called “extra”. It’d be “the mile that everyone always goes”.


So, go extra miles to give an extra wow:




To your customers – deliver jaw-dropping service and provide amazing add-ons they weren’t expecting.


To your colleagues – get to know them as people, fuel their passion, publicly recognize them, make your meetings/presentations exciting.


To your boss – work hard to make yourself a pleasure to be with, provide value and insights nobody else does, make them look good, volunteer for things, come in early, stay late.












Method #2: Teach them something


If you can get someone to think “Well, I’d 
never
 thought of it like that”, it’s a great start. It ticks both boxes of you being (a) different and (b) value-adding. Nobody else has made them think this, or it wouldn’t have been new to them.


For example, a couple of years ago I was asked to visit a large retail organization, to help improve their employee engagement. Before I went, I asked around, and found someone who used to work there. I asked her what she thought of the engagement and the reasons for it. She told me, then introduced me to some of her ex-colleagues, who were also very honest. These conversations led me to uncover that:




The bosses didn’t communicate with their people.


This meant there wasn’t enough information flowing around the organization.


This led to people thinking “information is power”.


Which caused them 
not
 to share information they heard.


This meant all the usual flows of information – vertical through the hierarchy, horizontal across departments – just wasn’t happening.


All of which was the main cause of low employee engagement.




When I met the Exec for the first time, I was able to share what I’d found out, and asked if they thought this was a fair reflection of the way things were. It turned out it was. And it also turned out they hadn’t thought of it like that, and were delighted I’d told them. Nobody else had done.










Method #3: Facts tell, stories sell


Relaying a story about something you’ve achieved, and the impact it had, differentiates you. After all, nobody else can say they’ve done it, because you’re the only one who did.


Most importantly, ensure you link your story to the needs of the person you’re seeking to impress. This helps them perceive you as uniquely placed to help them, rather than you simply discussing your own genius.


For example: “You mentioned at last week’s conference that you want us to be more customer-focused. I’d like to volunteer to help with this. I was part of a team that ran a similar project at my previous company, which led to market share increasing by X% in only Y months.”


Also, when choosing your best stories, remember that people often want to see you can have a long-term impact (the next chapter shows how to do this), so focus more on these examples than your short-term successes.










Method #4: Use unique contacts


If you know someone who knows the person you want to impress, ask:




Their advice on how to approach them.


Their permission to mention their name in your meeting.


How they want you to mention them. For example, do they want you just to say their name, or describe something they’ve done? Doing this ensures your interaction benefits all three of you, and almost always leads to quicker rapport-building in your meeting.












Method #5: Find a unique connection


Finding common ground accelerates the rapport-build. And it will set you apart if you’re the only one who made the connection. But, beware:




Ensure it’s a real connection, not one you’ve assumed to be true.


Make sure you ask them about their thoughts on your shared interest. Don’t use common ground as an excuse for you to give your opinions only.


Forced, shallow connections don’t work. Once, a door-to-door salesman saw my daughter’s bike outside our house. Then, when I opened the door, he blurted out “I’ve got children too”, which was a little perturbing.




The last point is important. A lot of us are told to build rapport, but don’t be too “friendly” too soon. Tony Birch – a proposal expert at Shipley Ltd. (if you write proposals, look them up: a great company) – told me of a procurement director who hated salespeople’s phony rapport-building so much that he put a photograph of some children on his desk. Then, every time a salesperson spotted the photograph and said “Are they your children?”, he replied “No. What do you want?”










Method #6: If you do have something unique, mention it


The last of the Super Six is to mention something unique, if you have it. This can be very powerful, but ensure that:




Your unique thing relates to their agenda, or is fascinating enough on its own so that they want to hear more.


It 
is
 unique: “I’ve led big teams before” isn’t. Neither is “We have exceptional customer service”. Everyone says this.


You stop discussing it if they don’t seem interested.




Also, be careful when discussing your unique thing. People might not be impressed by it. For instance, a taxi driver once told me he stayed in a bed and breakfast in Blackpool which had a unique thing: 
no cold water.
 When he asked what to do if he wanted some, the owner replied “Just run a bowl of hot water, and wait for a bit”. That made that B&B 
unique
, but certainly not of benefit to . . . well, anyone.






Which of the Super Six is Best?
It depends. But use 
at least
 one. If you don’t, you look the same as everyone else, and you’re soon going to hear “So, why are you better than my alternatives?” or, more depressingly, “Can you do anything about the price?”















23


When you want to cause long-term change, not a short-term blip




People fund long-term assets (like a car) with long-term finance (a loan); and short-term assets (iPod) with short-term finance (credit card).


After all, I have yet to see someone pay for a shirt by taking out a mortgage.


Similarly if you want to persuade people to change the way they think, feel and act 
forever
, you’re going to have to tell them many times, over a long period of time.


We all 
know
 repetition works. It’s why we’re so good at remembering to clean our teeth and wash behind our ears: because, as children, we were reminded every day for years until it became second nature.


Given this, it’s strange how people often think that one communication, given once, is going to cause long-term change:




One-off roadshows that explain the company’s new vision (this doesn’t cause employees to change their mindset and priorities forever).


Cascades with minimal follow-up (this causes messages to become diluted/lost).


One-day workshops (these often change behaviours for a short period, before people revert back).


Sending one email called “FYI” (this causes . . . well, nothing).




These one-offs will 
never
 be enough. So, what should be done instead?


Well, learn from good examples of repetition that you see around you. For example:




When it became illegal in the UK to smoke in public places, there were adverts, media campaigns, notices everywhere – pubs, clubs, hotels, public buildings.


This meant everyone heard the message many, many times. They knew it was 100% definitely happening, and wasn’t a “flavor of the month” they could ignore.


And then, immediately after the ban started, there were a few tabloid articles about people saying “I’m not changing. I’ve smoked for forty years” and the like. But, the campaign kept going. In the end, the die-hards changed. And this new law has been a huge success. It’s “the way things are” now.




I guess there’s a lot your company could learn from this example? Like, the unrelenting follow-up, the choice of the right media (more on this in the next chapter), and staying on course until the stragglers catch up.






Simple Ways to Reinforce Key Messages


To cause 
long-term
 change, you’ll need 
long-term
 communications. For instance:




1.
 Pre-communication questions, to find your people’s key objectives and concerns.


2.
 Pre-communication tasters, to whet people’s appetite for the change.


3.
 Your main communications, tailored to address the objectives and concerns you uncovered earlier.


4.
 Relentless, disciplined, focused follow-up communications, such as:
Delivering weekly updates.
Sharing success stories.
Institutionalizing a coaching program.
Publicizing early wins.
Hosting regular meetings, for all relevant groups.
Seeking feedback, both formal and informal.
Stimulating water-cooler conversations.
Selecting and training-up mentors.
Delegating important follow-up roles to your best people.






Reinforce Messages the Right Number of Times
Follow-up is clearly important. But how much should you do? How many times should you tell them?
Well, like a bald man who’s washing his face – believe me, I worry a lot about this – there’s no right time to stop. But you can be sure of one thing: you will 
definitely
 have to communicate it more than once.
And, of course, people will need constant reminders and reassurance from you. If they don’t get it right first time, encourage them. Ask how you can help them change. After all, I’ve yet to see a parent say to their toddler who stumbles when taking their first step: “Listen son, you’re clearly not a walker”. So:
1.
 For communications you’ve recently delivered but didn’t follow-up: follow them up! Ask people how they’re progressing, offer help, share successes, and build momentum.
2.
 For all your future communications, prepare both the communication 
and
 follow-up beforehand, not just the communication. And
 then keep following-up until things stick.
You would 
never
 buy a house with a credit card.
And you’ll 
never
 cause long-term change with one communication.















24


When you want to use the best communication channel to get a quick “yes”


In soccer, one of the most frustrating things is to work hard to get an easy goal-scoring opportunity, only for the striker to shoot wide with just the goalkeeper to beat. All that work, time and energy invested in getting the opportunity . . . totally wasted by a needless mistake when it mattered.
Similarly, with communication, you don’t want to invest lots of work, time and energy into creating persuasive content, only to “shoot wide” by choosing the wrong channel to communicate it. For instance:
One-way information downloads on a conference call would often have been better as an email.
Lengthy emails would often have been better as a conversation.
Formal presentations to many would often have been better as a conversation with the main decision maker.
One way to choose the best channel is to “Good Grief” your options. This means giving each possible channel two scores out of 10, to show:
Good – how likely that channel is to produce best results (where 10 is best); and
Grief – how much grief this channel is likely to bring you in terms of cost, time, hassle and your hatred of it (where 10 is worst, because it’s maximum grief).
Both are important. If it isn’t 
good
, it won’t work. If there’s too much 
grief
, you won’t want to do it.
For example, let’s assume you have an unpopular message to communicate. A conference call might score (3, 4):
3 out of 10 for “good”, because it’s unlikely to produce the desired impact: delivering an unpopular message in this impersonal way won’t engage; and
4 out of 10 for “grief”, in that it’s not much grief for you: you sit in your office, deliver the message, put the phone down and get on with your day.
So, given that a conference call is unlikely to work, let’s look at alternatives by “Good Grief-ing” other channels. The following table shows scores you might allocate. (There’s no “right or wrong”. You decide what’s right for you. These scores are just an illustration).




You want the closest to (10, 1), in that this option is most likely to work, whilst bringing you minimal grief. Here, the round-table option is clearly best (not surprisingly, verbal will usually beat written) though, if you hadn’t applied “Good Grief”, you might have delivered the message during your weekly conference call.
And, of course, you don’t have to choose just one option. For instance, in this example, you might:
1.
 Have a couple of individual face-to-face discussions with influential people (this might be worth the extra “grief”, because getting them on-side early will make the rest easier).
2.
 Then, host a round-table discussion with everyone.
3.
 Follow-up with a group email, to make the message “official”.
4.
 After a couple of weeks, host a video conference/conference call to take questions, share successes, remove concerns and so on.
And, because no business book is complete without a two-by-two matrix, here’s how it looks visually:




You can see how your best options are bunched top left. Sometimes, depend­ing on its importance, it might be worth the extra grief involved and going top right.
Equally importantly, bottom right instantly shows what you 
shouldn’t
 be doing.
Two final points:
Firstly, whatever channel(s) you use, make sure you get your title right or you won’t engage them. Call anything “update” and it’s not going to draw the crowds (this is really important; the next chapter shows how to do it).
And secondly, you’ll find “Good Grief” is also useful when choosing between alternatives. For example, once salespeople see that cold-calling often scores (1, 10) and that word-of-mouth scores (10, 1), they never cold-call again. A blessing for everyone!
Without “Good Grief”, it’s all too easy to use the channel you’re in the habit of using. But that might be a big mistake for certain messages; a bit like shooting wide with just the goalkeeper to beat.















25


When you want to create titles that instantly grab people




At my daughter’s nursery, misbehaving children used to be put on the Naughty Mat. But the nursery felt this name sent out the wrong vibe – “Child, you’re naughty”. So, they now call it the Thinking Mat – “Sit there and think what you could do better next time”.


This simple change has shifted the children’s mindset about being on it – they sulk less and are ready to come off it sooner. Just because they changed its name.


You see, to persuade people, titles are critical. They help you engage people early. They set the tone for what follows. I touched on titles in chapter 1, but they’re so important, it’s worth spending a bit more time on them here.


When you think about it, you know titles are an essential part of communication. They’re the first things people see. Newspapers employ experts to write headlines. Advertisers and publishers know a poor title destroys sales.


But, despite titles’ importance, people rarely spend much time thinking about them. Their titles usually merely 
describe
 the content: “Departmental conference”, “Our credentials”, “Q2 review” and the like.


Don’t believe me? Check your inbox. Let me guess: you’ve received emails called:




“FYI”


“Miscellaneous”


“RE:”


“Update”




They don’t make you leap to open them, do they?


And it’s not just emails. I mean, when slide one of a presentation says “Last month’s results”, you’re not exactly itching to see slide two.


Or, when you have a conference call at 9am called “Update”, you don’t wake up that morning thinking “Yes. It’s today!”


Uninspiring, boring titles set the tone for uninspiring, boring communications. It’s hard enough to get a “Yes” without turning people off before you’ve even started speaking.




How to Create Engaging Titles
Fortunately, there’s a simple, effective remedy. Add an audience-benefit to the title (or subtitle) and you change the context entirely. For instance, would you rather receive communications called:
“Departmental conference” or “Ensuring next year’s even better”
“Our credentials” or “Where we can bring you most value”
“Q2 review” or “Q3 preview: Ensuring we surge ahead”
See how it works? Better titles instantly transform other people’s – and 
your
 – mindset about the communication.
Here’s how to write them:
1.
 Turn your title into a benefit (use chapter 17’s “Why That’s Good Game” to help you).
2.
 Create a new title which includes this benefit. If it helps, use one of these formats:




3.
 Decide whether the title should be either:
The main title
This makes the benefit prominent.
For example, remember John in chapter 1? His original email title was “Figures”. We changed it to “Making sure you get paid on time this month”.
Beware though: working the benefit into a main title can make it too long or too vague, or – when it’s an email – look like spam. So, instead, you could put it in:
A subtitle
This time, you keep the original title as your main title and add a benefits-rich subtitle – “Communication Masterclass: Achieve amazing things every time you speak”.
Of course, this advice relates to all your titles, not just the main one at the top. After all, you don’t want to open a document enticingly titled “How to inspire everyone”, only to find sections called “Background”, “About us”, and “Our process”.
And it’s also important that your introductions build on your engaging titles, to keep people hooked (see the next chapter for how to do this).
Using effective titles is one of those things that sounds really obvious and you’d imagine everyone would do it. One quick look at your inbox will show you they don’t (and one quick look at your Sent Items will show whether you do.)















26


When you want to write eye-catching introductions




Every time you communicate, you want people to engage with you instantly. This gives you a much better chance of getting them to do what you want. This short chapter will help you do this very quickly. Let me explain . . . 


Imagine that you work in Marketing, and want to share your new plans with the sales director. Which introduction would she prefer?




“Here’s our Marketing plans for next year”; or


“I know you’re keen to improve the performance of every one of your team, to reduce your dependence on a handful of superstars. We have a new approach to help ensure this happens. I want to show you how it will work, by running through our Marketing plans for next year.”








The second is clearly much more compelling. It starts with 
her
 agenda, not yours (in fact, your agenda – the plan – isn’t mentioned until the end of your introduction). This makes it much more likely to secure 
her
 buy-in.


Changing your introductions in this way is another of these ideas that should always happen, but rarely does. Don’t believe me? Check your company’s website and brochures and note how many paragraphs begin with the word “We”, “Our” or your company’s name. These are examples of 
your
 agenda, not the recipients’.






Use the 4W
s
 to Create Powerful Introductions


My 4Ws approach is a simple way to create better introductions. Using the Marketing example above to explain each W:






W
hat they want – To improve every salesperson’s performance


W
hy they want it – To reduce dependence on the superstars


W
e can help – “We can help”


W
hat I’m discussing – Here’s my Marketing plan






Does the 4Ws secure immediate buy-in? Well, check out the first paragraph of this chapter. Did it work?


To help you see where you might use the 4Ws, let’s look at a couple more examples.




Giving an update following a recent restructure? Instead of “I’d like to update you with what’s been going on”, try:




“Many of you have told me you’re looking for more clarity following the recent changes, (
W
hat they want)


so we can all get on with our jobs more effectively and confidently. (
W
hy they want it)


So, that’s what this meeting’s all about. (
W
e can help)


I’m going to update you with what’s been going on, and then . . . (
W
hat I’m discussing)”








Running a workshop? Replace “Welcome to today’s Excel Intermediate workshop” with:




“Every one of us needs more time, whether that’s because we want to get more done, to finish work earlier, or just to make things more pleasant and simple. Today’s session will help you achieve this. I’m going to show you how to use Excel to help you to . . .”










Combining Great Titles with Powerful Introductions


The 4Ws works well alongside the previous chapter about intriguing titles, since a great title/introduction combo makes a very compelling start. For instance, one of my customers recently pitched for a multi-million dollar contract. Before I started to edit their proposal, the general format of every section was:




other


Our technology




We have cutting-edge technology that we can deploy the minute you agree to work with us. The key attributes of this technology, and the related benefits that it will bring, are . . . 










With every section, we added a benefit to the titles, and a 4Ws introduction:






other


How our technology will increase your competitive advantage






Your #1 goal is to increase your competitive advantage, through developing a market-defining solution that your competition cannot match. The quicker and better you achieve this, the greater your return.




We can help you do this quickly, through our
 cutting-edge technol­ogy that we can deploy the minute you agree to work with us. The key attributes of this technology, and the related benefits that it will bring, are . . . 








Notice how the 4Ws introduction (shown in italics) focuses 
on their
 agenda, not 
yours
? Also, once your introductory paragraph is compelling, you often don’t need to change what follows (I didn’t alter the “our cutting-edge technology” paragraph) – great if you’re short of time.




The 4W
s
 Even Works at Home
Like many of this book’s techniques, the 4Ws works at home too.
For example, it helped my daughter Megan become a school prefect. Part of the selection process involved students writing a letter explaining why they should be chosen.
When I asked her why she wanted to get the role, her first answer was “because it will look good when I apply for jobs”. Sure, this was true; but it wasn’t persuasive: it focused on her, not the school; plus every student would have said the same thing.
So, I showed her the 4Ws, and she wrote this introduction:
other
Dear Mr X,
My name is Megan Bounds, from 10F, and I would very much like to become a prefect. I know it is an important role, and I feel as though I would be able to do it well. This letter explains what I think a prefect’s job is, and examples of why I think I would suit this role.
Students want somebody to go to
I feel that being there for other students is one of the most important roles of a prefect. Students should have someone they feel they can go to when they’re worried, or too nervous to go to a teacher.
I can help with this, because I am used to being there for my younger siblings. I’m used to taking responsibility for them, and being there to answer their questions. I also . . . 
There aren’t many techniques that both help companies win multi-million dollar contracts and teenagers become prefects. But 4Ws is one. Even better, it doesn’t take long to do. That’s got to be worth trying!















27


When you want to use analogies to make your point




One of my customers recently told me:




“Our culture is stifling our management team. It’s like owning a Ferrari, but driving it with the brakes on: it’s a waste of an expensive, high-quality resource. We need to work out how to use our Ferrari better.”








Analogies like this explain the point you want to make (our management team is stifled) by likening it to something unrelated (driving a Ferrari with the brakes on). They’re a great way to persuade, in that they:




Increase understanding and buy-in – two key elements of persuasion.


Often lead to less challenge – “Our management team is stifled” could easily be met with “No, it’s not”.


Are especially useful when your message is not landing, is complex, unusual or just plain boring.




Analogies often work best when they’re a bit “different” – a badly-driven Ferrari is a memorable picture – and/or refer to your audience’s interests. For instance, telling a golf-loving boss that his approach is like “playing golf with an expensive tennis racquet” will resonate more than “this is costing too much”.






How to Create Powerful Analogies




Technique 1 – use quotes or sayings


One approach is to use other people’s analogies. For instance, to convince your business to invest 
now
 while there’s spare cash, you might use John F. Kennedy’s line: “The time to repair the roof is when the sun is shining.”


And you can make it more powerful by following it with the foolishness of the reverse: “Our other option is to wait until it’s raining, when we don’t have as much money. We’d quickly wish we’d acted now.”


If you know a good quote, use it. If not, there are thousands online. Just Google “quotations”, choose a site, type in your topic and see what comes up.


Or, instead of using someone’s comment, you could apply a well-known saying to your message. So, to encourage your colleagues to act quickly, you might use: “The early bird catches the worm. We need to act 
now.
”




Technique 2 – create your own analogies
The first technique can work well, but the analogies aren’t original, so people might have heard them. So, in response to the “early bird” quote, somebody might say: “Yes, but the second mouse gets the cheese!” Also, you might just want to create your own. I certainly do.
There are three steps to creating analogies:
1.
 Identify the message you want others to buy into.
2.
 Create an analogy by thinking of a similar situation, in a different context.
3.
 Add your recommendation/advice, so the analogy triggers a next step.
A quick example:
1.
 My message: people’s slides can be boring.
2.
 My analogy: I think of somewhere I’ve seen good visuals, like TV weather forecasts.
3.
 My advice: learn from the forecasters – give a couple of examples to make it real.
I would say this as follows:
TV weather forecasters use visuals well. Their map changes to reflect what they’re saying. The map has no writing on it, which would distract the viewer. Everything comes across clearly because of the combination of visuals and presenter.
It should be the same when you use slides – reduce your words, use animations to clarify messages, and ensure your visuals and delivery complement each other.
So, next time you’re presenting, prepare like a weather forecaster, to make sure your slides enhance – not dilute – your message.
That analogy used a 
better
 version (the weather forecast) to show what people 
should
 be doing. Instead, I could compare current habits to a 
worse
 version, to motivate people to change:
Have you ever tried to have a conversation while the TV’s on too loud next to you? Even if the program’s boring, it still absorbs most of your attention.
It’s the same with slides. If they’re distracting – too wordy so people read them, or with spelling mistakes – you lose your audience. So my advice is . . . 
One more example: do you remember puzzles like this from your childhood? If you had only 10 seconds to complete this puzzle, how would you do it?




Start at the end and work backwards, yes?
It’s the same when you’re doing 30–60–90-day plans. Don’t start at the 30. Like a maze, start at the end: know where you want to be in 90 days. Then, work backwards to see where you need to be after 60 days, to hit this 90-day target. Then, where you need to be in 30 to achieve your 60.
(Incidentally, of all the analogies I’ve made up, my favourite one is in the next chapter. It shows how to use Star Wars to help you structure communications).


Let’s release the Ferrari
It’s easy to communicate like you’re driving a Ferrari with the brakes on. You have such valuable things to share, yet work pressures get in the way.
So make better use of your valuable insights. Analogies help you do this, by ensuring people embrace and act on your messages.

















28


When you want to structure your communications so they’re more persuasive




Star Wars changed many things about the film industry. It might also help change how you structure your communications.


Did you know, you don’t have to watch any of the six Star Wars films? The titles tell you everything you need to know. To understand what I mean, you only need know that the goodies are called “Jedi” and the baddies are called “Sith”, who work for the “Empire”.


The six films are called:




1.
 
The Phantom Menace


2.
 
Attack of the Clones


3.
 
Revenge of the Sith


4.
 
A New Hope


5.
 
The Empire Strikes Back


6.
 
Return of the Jedi




In other words:




1.
 A baddie appears


2.
 There’s a fight


3.
 The baddies win


4.
 There’s hope for the goodies


5.
 But the baddies win again


6.
 And, finally, the goodies win overall




And that’s it.






If Star Wars Can Do It, So Can You


And why’s this relevant when you want to persuade someone? Well, they need to be able to follow your thought process. This means you need a clear, interesting structure.


So, like Star Wars, let your titles tell the story. Writing them 
before
 you write your content helps you flow smoothly from topic to topic. For example, if you were launching a new initiative, your titles could be:




Times are getting harder


And it’s costing us money


So, we looked at three options


Option X was too risky


Option Y was too expensive


Leaving Option Z as the clear way forward


So, our next steps are . . . 








Three Quick Steps, to Embed the “Star Wars Way”


1.
 Always include “Next steps” as your final title. If you don’t, there won’t be any.
2.
 If it helps, use the four Ps to help create your titles (I used these in the above example):
P
osition – The current situation is . . . 
P
roblem – And it’s bad for us because . . . 
P
ossibilities – So our choices are . . . 
P
ropose – Therefore I propose our next steps are . . . 
3.
 Once you have your titles, simply add the relevant content under each, and you have a well-structured, persuasive communication.















29
When you want to pass an exam
The final two chapters in this section focus on two “yeses” all of us want at some point:
A “yes” from an interviewer – the next chapter describes how to write a résumé that stands out amongst all the others out there.
A “yes” from an examiner – this one shows the most effective, simplest, quickest way of passing an exam.
Before I started doing what I do now, I used to teach accountants how to pass their professional exams (bit of a career change, I know). And these exams aren’t easy. Many students, who’d sailed through exams all their lives, suddenly came unstuck with these, despite working harder than ever before.
I found that they almost always had enough knowledge to pass. But they didn’t know how to maximize their marks given the knowledge they had.
I wanted to make it easier for them, so I spent years working out the best way to maximize marks. And it worked very well: I taught national prize winners; and my pass rates were much higher than national averages.
Here’s what I found to be the best way to approach exams (I’m assuming here that they’re written exams, not multi-choice ones).
Focus on the Marker
Many students believe markers think of them as individuals. They don’t.
I used to mark for one of the accountancy exams. It was hard work. I had 400 identical papers to mark, to a very high standard, with a very tight timeline, during the Christmas vacation.
I 
never
 once thought “I hope this particular person passes more than I wanted the others to.” I just rigorously, fairly, dispassionately applied the marking guide to what was in front of me.
Given this, you have to help the marker give you as many marks as possible, by doing such things as:
Use sub-headings that contain the same words as the requirement. This makes it easy for him to tie your answers to his marking guide.
Ensure your writing is legible. If it isn’t, you won’t get marks. This means you have to practise writing neatly quickly. Believe me, the skill of speedy neatness doesn’t suddenly appear in the exam room.
Start a new paragraph every time you make a new point. Use short paragraphs with a blank line in between them. Bite-sized chunks are easier to mark quickly.
Read the Requirement First
The requirement shows what the examiner wants. Nothing else does. Therefore, read it first, before all the paragraphs of information they give. There are lots of benefits in doing this:
A common examiner complaint is that people don’t answer the question that was asked. Reading the requirement first helps stop this happening.
You can often answer some requirements without having to read the text (see the next point for how to do this).
When you do read the text, you know which bits are relevant to the requirement, so spot them more quickly.
A lot of students struggle with this, saying “but I want to read top to bottom, not bottom first.”
I found the best way to persuade them was by setting a 10 Minute Power Test. I gave them five pages packed with detailed statistics, complex charts, lengthy paragraphs and unfathomable phrases, and 10 minutes to answer the question.
The room would go quiet for a few minutes, as they worked through this com­plicated mass of tedium. I swear I could sometimes feel their hatred building toward me.
And then someone would laugh, and say “oh this is easy”. They’d seen the requirement at the bottom of Page 5 said “Write your name (100 marks)”.
Get Easy Marks First
The dispassionate marker doesn’t care what you find easy or hard. If you write something that’s on the marking scheme, you’ll get the marks. Therefore, always do the easy questions first. For example, imagine a question with this requirement:
Requirement
(a)
 In the above text, what are company X’s main strengths? (4 marks)
(b)
 Produce a six-month cashflow using the figures in paragraphs 3 and 4. (4 marks)
(c)
 List four things a company may spend money on, and why. (8 marks)
Here, you would do part (c) without even reading the detailed paragraphs. Do this well, you might score the 50% you need to pass this entire question.
This approach means that you pick up most marks per minute at the beginning:




Break the Requirement Down into Bits
Another common examiner complaint is that people don’t answer 
all
 the questions asked. In the above example, where I suggested doing part (c) first, this actually had two elements to it:
List four things a company may spend money on.
And why.
It would be very easy to not see “And why”, and throw away half the marks.
Maximize Your Marks by Seeing Things from Different Viewpoints
Exams often ask you to comment on something. These questions can be tricky to answer well, so I devised this approach that my students said helped them pick up lots of marks very quickly:
Define it
Give an example
Say a good thing about it
Say a bad thing about it
Mention people affected by it
Say how they’re affected – good and bad
So, in answer to “Why is marketing important to a business?”, the answer might start like this:
‘Marketing” is all the activities a company undertakes to trigger interest in its products and services. Examples include:
The messages it sends to the marketplace – about a company’s values, products etc.
The channels it chooses for those messages – advertising, PR and so on.
How marketable the product is – its price/value ratio and brand etc.
Its use of social media.
Marketing is essential in that it entices existing and potential customers to want to know more. This starts/continues the process of convincing them to buy.
But marketing has its problems. It can be very expensive. The return is often not immediate, or measurable.
And, because it can be hard to measure, it can be virtually impossible to know which methods are working. This might mean companies continue to invest in loss-making activities.
Marketing is also important to a business because of its impact on different types of people. For instance . . . 
See how this approach helps you score marks quickly? This is because you now have black and white steps to answering gray, hard-to-start questions.
Stop on Time
One of the most common reasons people failed accountancy exams was because they got their timing wrong. Note that 20% of the marks should take 20% of the time. Put another way: if you spend 90% of your time on 5% of the marks, you won’t have enough time left to get sufficient marks to pass.
Imagine that someone stopped doing their question on time, but you didn’t. Look at the disastrous shaded area below . . . 




Preparing in the Right Way
Three quick tips about preparing:
1.
 On the day, you have to answer 
questions.
 So, the best preparation is to practise 
questions
. This is very different than simply learning the manual (which is like practising for a driving test by reading the Highway Code, but never once sitting behind a steering wheel).
2.
 If you’re a “morning person”, revise in the morning. I used to 
despise
 setting the alarm 90 minutes earlier, but I used to 
love
 that doing so saved me three hours in the evening. Even better, I’d done 90 minutes high-quality revision while other students were asleep. The things you cling to when you’re revising!
3.
 Keep revision as interesting as possible. There’s so much support now – podcasts, guides, journals, helplines – that you can choose the ones that best suit you. If you don’t, and start to find it depressingly boring, you’ll quickly start looking at your watch thinking “only 50 minutes to go to my next break . . . only 49½ minutes to go . . . only 49¼ minutes to go . . .”











30
When you want to get a job interview
When I left university, like many students, I didn’t have a job. I was also – again, like many students – totally broke, so was living with my parents.
While I was still job-hunting, I remember watching my Dad review applications for a very senior position in his office. And I was 
amazed
 – and a bit gutted, to be honest – how quickly he reviewed people’s résumés that they’d taken ages to write.
I mean, he read everything in there, and treated all the résumés fairly. But it was all just so 
quick.
 And it struck me how a recruiter’s first read-through is often a filtering exercise, which puts people into one of three groups – extremely impressive; definitely not; everyone else.
Twenty years on, and I’ve helped hundreds of people secure senior jobs by ensuring their résumé goes into the first group. This chapter contains my top tips to help you do this. To make things as “real” as possible, I’ve included “before and after” excerpts of Carl’s résumé (he’s one of my customers) whose revised résumé led to an interview panel saying it was the best they’d ever read and that it “was like reading a story”.
Start with the Employer’s Needs, not Your Background
You want to grab attention from line one. This means focusing on the employer, not you. For example, Carl’s original résumé began:
other
An outstanding and resilient NHS commissioning professional, with strategic and operational experience in both primary and secondary healthcare services and a reputation for de-mystifying complex data to effect change, Carl brings a proven record of delivering major savings and performance improvement across multiple trusts and levels of care.
We changed this to:
other
The ability to deliver 
measurable outcomes
 is more important than ever. Carl has a proven track record of helping the NHS achieve this, including:
Transforming a £2 m planned care budget overspend to operating a 2% surplus within a year.
Delivering a 10% decrease in the number of patients waiting longer than 18 weeks for their treatment.
Reducing GP consultations for common mental health disorders by 86,000 within a year.
Focus on the Results You’ve 
Caused
, not the Work You’ve 
Done
Employers want to know you can deliver 
results.
 So focus on the 
results
 you’ve caused, rather than what you’ve done.
Did you notice how Carl’s revised résumé did this in the previous example?
Originally he’d written these three points like this:
other
Delivered major efficiency programs across community, primary, and secondary care.
Worked extensively with GPs to embed new frameworks to improve patient outcomes and reduce unnecessary referrals.
Jointly managed national programs locally, including implementing the Electronic Staff Record system across multiple trusts and hospitals and a national program to improve mental health outcomes.
Tell Your Unique Story in a Clear, Compelling Way
According to LinkedIn, most people sell themselves by using words such as “Extensive experience, dynamic, innovative, motivated, team player, results-oriented, great interpersonal skills, entrepreneurial”.
Now people may well all have these characteristics. But, if 
everybody’s
 saying them, they don’t stand out. This is like the scene in my son Jack’s favourite film 
The Incredibles
, where Mrs. Incredible says “Everyone’s special”, to which her son replies “That’s another way of saying ‘no one is’”.
Carl has some great, unique experiences, but he used to say things like:
other
Carl was Regimental Sergeant Major of the Army’s premier Field Hospital.
His résumé now reads:
other
Carl’s experiences – which include managing a £77 m planned care budget and being part of the Army’s executive team which was awarded the Wilkinson Sword of Peace – mean he knows how to deliver outcomes with measurable benefits.
Link Your Experiences to Their Needs
Carl used to describe himself using words like “outstanding and resilient”. This is great if an employer wants someone outstanding and resilient. But it’s often better to frame your qualities from the employer’s point of view:




And the Best Advice about Your résumé?
Don’t rely on it.
Wherever possible (and it isn’t always), do all you can to ensure your résumé isn’t the first the decision maker hears of you. If you can, speak to them beforehand and/or ask a mutual contact to put in a good word.
After all, you’d rather their first thought was “Oh good, here’s Carl’s CV. I’m looking forward to reading this”, and not “Just three more to go, then I’ll have a break”.











SECTION D
Enjoy your job more
How to make work more fun




Why this matters
One of the first questions I ask my new customers is whether they’re having fun at work.
Almost none say “yes”; most replies being “no”, “not really”, “not at the minute”, “I will do when X is finished” and “I will do when Y leaves me alone”. I also get the occasional “it’s going OK”.
Admittedly, I probably have a skewed sample – after all, they’ve just asked me to help them with something. So, let me ask 
you
.
Are 
you
 having fun at work?
When you wake up, do you look forward to your day?
Do you 
know
 it’ll be great?
If you said three yeses, that’s great (and very rare!). If not, this section will help you do something about it, by showing how to 
enjoy
 your dealings with others. As with the other sections, it contains lots of small chapters, so you can roll your snowball and pick up easy techniques as you go.
You go to work for thousands of days in your lifetime. You might as well really enjoy them. Let’s look at easy ways to help you do so.









31


When you want to ensure everyone – including you – thinks you’re great




To enjoy your job more, there’s a question you absolutely 
must
 have a good answer to: “
What do you do?
” So how would you complete the sentence . . .










My job is to . . .








Most people answer this question with either:
What they 
are
 – “I’m an accountant”; or
What they 
do
 – “I prepare tax returns”.
Neither 
grabs
 you, do they? And that’s because people are much more interested in:
What they 
cause
 – “I help people pay less tax”.
Doesn’t this person sound useful?! And I bet they 
enjoy
 their job too. They’ll know the value they deliver to others. They’ll be in demand. They’ll probably be very successful. By sorting out their 
inside
 (how they feel about themselves), they now have a valuable 
outside
 (how others see them).
Weird, isn’t it? It’s the same accountant. They’re just describing themselves more effectively now. Here’s how you can do the same.
An “Elevator Pitch” can focus on one of three things:




The right-hand side is 
by far
 the most valuable. So, you should talk about that side more.


How to ensure 
you
 think you’re great
Once you know to focus on the AFTERs you 
cause
, you see examples of it everywhere:
Disney talks about “making your dreams come true”, not its cartoons.
Kodak talks about your memories, not its photographs.
Graham Gooch calls himself the England cricket team’s “Run-making Coach”, not “Batting Coach”.
And, for me, my job is to help people communicate better, not to be a consultant/author.
To create an AFTERs-rich Elevator Pitch, there are three elements:
1.
 The subject.
2.
 The verb.
3.
 The AFTERs.
Here are three examples, to show how the steps work.




So, what’s your Elevator Pitch?




Compare this to your Elevator Pitch at the start of this chapter. Can you see how much more valuable you look now? Even though, just like the accountant above, you’re still the same person.
Once you have an impressive AFTERs-rich Elevator Pitch, your next step is to find evidence that proves 
to you
 that it’s right. For instance, think you’re a Tax Reducer? Then identify:
Examples of when you’ve saved people tax.
The total amount of tax you’ve saved.
Tax advice that others don’t know.
And then work hard to get even better at delivering your AFTERs. For instance:
Find new ways to increase tax savings.
Give free advice about it.
Keep at the forefront of your industry.
Ask others for their tax-saving ideas.
Publish white papers about saving tax.
 . . . 
anything
 that keeps you as AFTERs-y as possible.
And, of course, AFTERs are also a great way to align your team with your vision. For example, Bev James, CEO of The Coaching Academy (the world’s largest training school for coaches), told me that she uses AFTERs to remind her team why they do what they do. So, they no longer think of themselves as “coaches”; instead, they “help people achieve more than they thought they could”. Imagine the power of having your whole team thinking like that.




How to ensure 
everyone
 thinks you’re great


When I want to pay less tax, I’ll go to someone who sees their role as a Tax Reducer, not as an Accountant.


When I want to grow my business, I’ll go to a bank which talks about my Business Growth, not its Business Development Loans.


When I want to score more runs, I’ll go to Graham Gooch, not to a batting coach (though even he might struggle to help someone who’s blind in one eye).


In other words, once you’ve convinced yourself of the AFTERs you cause, it’s relatively easy to convince 
others.
 You just need to mention your AFTERs every time it’s appropriate – in conversations, meetings, networking events, interviews, presentations, documents, brochures, websites and so on.




How your AFTER
s
-focus improves your communication
Once you realize your role isn’t to 
do
 things but to 
cause
 things, your communications naturally improve:




So, not only do AFTERs-causers feel valuable, they also communicate more quickly and effectively. They get more done. They have better relationships. They enjoy the ride more.


And finally . . . 
So, having gone through all this, here are two big questions:
1.
 How do you describe yourself to 
others
?
2.
 How do you describe yourself to 
yourself
?
The more you focus on the AFTERs you 
cause
, the more others will too – making you feel more valuable to them. And to you.















32


When you want to build powerful relationships quickly




To enjoy your job, you want powerful relationships with great people. This drives 
everything
 – the quality of your conversations, the ease with which you get things done, your sense of fulfillment at work and home, and how successful you are. As Tony Robbins says: “People’s lives are a direct reflection of the expectations of their peer group.”


Given how important relationships are, you’ll want to get them right. Fortunately, there are only three main things to focus on:




1.
 Know the right people.


2.
 See them the right number of times.


3.
 Have the right conversations with them.






1.  Know the right people
Networking takes time. It’s bound to, I suppose. After all, it’s called net-
work
, not net-
wait-for-something-to-happen.
So, to get best results when networking, spend the most time with people who have both the:
Power to help you; and
Desire to do so.
A simple way to evaluate your current network is to grade each of your main contacts’ Power and Desire, and plot them on the following chart:




So, in my chart, 
1
 might be a CEO who thinks you’re great (high power and desire); 
2
 might be a Board member who doesn’t know you well (high power but low desire); and 
3
 could be the new part-time junior who doesn’t know you at all (low both).
This chart helps show:
The strength of your network – do most of your contacts have the power and/or desire to help?
What to do with each person on there.




Three quick notes to help you:
1.
 The two arrows show the direction you want to go:
Developing your relationships with “high power/low desire” builds their desire to help you.
Your “low power/high desire” contacts could help by introducing you to their powerful contacts.
2.
 You’ll notice I keep saying to work hard (as I said earlier, “it’s called net-
work
”).
3.
 The chart’s real value is in 
doing
 it. If you’ve five minutes now, why not look at your contacts in your phone, and plot them on here? What patterns do you see? What are the strengths/weaknesses of your network? Do you spend time with the right people?


2.  See your contacts the right number of times
It’s pretty obvious that you should see people the “right number of times”. In fact, it’s so obvious that – if work and life didn’t get in the way – you wouldn’t need this section.
But, unfortunately, work and life 
do
 get in the way. And when you’re busy and your brain’s full of all sorts of stuff, it’s easy to forget to spend time with the people you should be seeing (or spend too long with those you shouldn’t).
So, make it easier by inserting 
recurring
 diary reminders to speak to them. This means you never have to remember it yourself.
If it helps, use a KITE table (where KITE stands for 
K
eep 
I
n 
T
ouch 
E
very):




Then, group all the same types – e.g. the “monthlies” – in one recurring diary entry called “contact the following people: X, Y, Z”. When the reminder comes up every month, just do what the diary says!
Some people feel KITE is over the top. And for you it might be. But, in my experience, these same people often also tell me “I really must speak to Mrs. X more often”.


3.  Have the right conversations
I think my previous bank manager used to have a KITE table. Every month – without fail – he’d call to try and sell me something.
Hmmm . . . that’s not relationship building; that’s selling (these two are like oil and water – your business needs both, but they don’t mix very well). In fact, it wasn’t really “selling”; it was just annoying.
So, when you contact people, remember the Golden Rule of relationship building:
Always bring value
Or, if you prefer, make sure they think “I’m glad he called”. There are lots of things you can do to achieve this:
 1.
 Ask how you can help them.
 2.
 Ask if they want you to send an article you saw/wrote that they’d find useful.
 3.
 Ask how they/their family are.
 4.
 Ask what they’re working on; and, if appropriate, offer to help.
 5.
 Introduce them to one of your contacts.
 6.
 Publicize them in some way (for example, endorse them on LinkedIn).
 7.
 Invite them to an event.
 8.
 Send them a book you think they’d find helpful.
 9.
 Give advice if they want it.
10.
 Refer to something they told you previously.
There are loads. You’ll notice quite a few include the word “ask” – the next chapter has more on how to do this well. You’ll also notice 
none
 involve shoving banking products down someone’s throat!
One final point: these don’t take much time/effort, but all bring huge value to your contacts, and therefore to you. Even better, you can leverage the ones you choose. For instance, one month, you might share the same article with lots of different people. Each of them thinks “I’m glad he called”, and it wasn’t at all onerous for you.
In many ways, this is one of the most important chapters in the book. Build great relationships with great people, and success becomes inevitable. What one action could you take, to be even better at it?













33
When you want to get things right first time
“Give me some Rules of Thumb about communication that I can follow every time. Without thinking.”
So said one of my customers recently. I asked what areas he was most interested in.
Him: 
Well, when I’m making a formal presentation, should I use PowerPoint or not?
Me: 
I don’t know. It depends what your audience wants. Your best bet is to ask how they want you to deliver it.
Him: 
OK, but if I 
do
 use PowerPoint, should I send the slides in advance, or take everything with me on the day?
Me: 
It depends. I suggest you ask if they want to see something upfront.
Him: 
And, should I start my presentation with background information, to set the scene?
Me: 
It depends. Many people don’t care, but some do. I’d ask them if they want it. And, if so, ask which bits they’re most interested in.
Him: 
And who should present it? The best presenters on my team? Me? The people who’ll be doing the work?
Me: 
It depends. I suggest you ask . . . 
Him (interrupting me): 
This is 
exasperating
. I’m looking for Rules of Thumb. And you keep saying it depends.
Me: 
Can’t you hear the Rule of Thumb? 
Ask
.
The best way to give people the information they want is to 
ask
 what information they want. Contact them beforehand, and say:
1.
 What do you want me to cover?
2.
 What do you 
not
 want me to cover?
3.
 What do you think are the most positive aspects of this topic?
4.
 What do you think are the most concerning?
Answers 1 and 2 tell you what to talk about.
Answer 3 – their positives – could well appear in your title/subtitle to grab attention early (so, if their answer was speed, your subtitle might be something like “A quick resolution to X”).
Answer 4 gives you vital information about their concerns, which you 
must
 address during your communication. If you don’t, they’ll still be concerned – no good for either of you (chapter 53 shows how to reduce concerns).
There are other questions you can ask too of course, but I find these first four are a great start. Others that uncover useful information include:
Who else will see my communication? What will they want me to include?
Does this topic relate to everyone, or just certain people?
Would you prefer a formal PowerPoint presentation, or an informal discussion?
How long would you like me to speak for?
Will there be a Q&A session? If so, would you prefer questions during, or at the end?
. . . and so on.
These questions will help. But get the balance right between getting guidance and getting on their nerves. If in doubt, it’s often worth asking one too many questions, rather than one too few. After all, if you don’t ask, you’re guessing, which can easily go spectacularly wrong.
To find lots of gold, dig deep
If you were digging for gold, and could use either a pneumatic drill or a spade, which would you choose?
The drill, right? It’s easier, and would hit gold more quickly.
The problem though is that the drill digs 
too
 quickly. So, yes, you’ll reach gold earlier, but you’ll then keep hurtling downwards, missing most of it. Contrast that with a spade. It’ll take longer but, when you hit gold, you’ll dig sideways along the vein. So, the spade is harder work, but you’ll get 
lots
 more value from using it.
It’s the same when asking questions. Treat their answers like 
gold.
 Don’t hurtle past with a speedy pneumatic drill, but use a spade to dig deeper into what they say, using:
Questions – why, when, how, what; and/or
Digging phrases – “tell me more”, “please expand on that”, “anything else?”
So, imagine you’re preparing a presentation for your Board. You call a Board member to ask for guidance. Your spade-digging may go something like this:
You: 
What would like me to cover? (This is the first question from earlier.)
Her: 
Just give us a quick update.
You: 
Sure. What in particular do you want updating on?
Her: 
The impact when we move into Belgium.
You: 
Why Belgium?
Her: 
Because it’s our focus now.
You: 
Why’s that?
Her: 
Because it’s going to be our biggest market.
You: 
Really? Why?
Her: 
[more detail]
You: 
So, what aspects of my initiative do you think are most relevant to your aims for Belgium?
Her: 
[they reply]
You: 
And, given all this, is there anything you don’t want me to cover at the Board meeting? (This is the second question from before.)
This looks like a lot of work. But it isn’t. In fact, this interchange would only take a few minutes. But imagine if you 
hadn’t
 asked any questions. You just 
wouldn’t
 have known what was wanted.
Or, imagine you hadn’t used your spade to dig along the gold. You’d have thought she wanted an “update” and would have missed the key focus was Belgium.
(A useful aside: in media interviews/parliamentary questions, people often see the questions they’ll be asked in advance, so they prepare for them. But they 
don’t
 see the follow-up questions, which often provide the real challenge and insight.)
This chapter has led us to the following indisputable conclusions:
Ask no questions – bad idea: it means you’re guessing everything.
Asking 1–2 questions – bad idea: it means you’re guessing nearly everything. Even worse, you might feel you’ve done your research and are basing your content on “facts”, which you’re not.
Spending time digging with your spade – great idea: it leads to better, shorter, more successful communications (the next chapter shows you how to ensure they’re interesting too).











34
When you want to deliver interesting presentations that impress everyone
Most presentations sure are dull, aren’t they? Awful slides, monotonous delivery, zero engagement, some – as we discussed in the last chapter – even discuss the wrong thing!
This means it should be pretty easy for yours to stand out. This chapter shows a very simple way to ensure they do.
Firstly, since you want to interest 
others
, start by thinking about what 
others
 find interesting. For instance, they like:
Interactivity – pretty much everyone would rather join in a dialogue than listen to someone talk 
at
 them
Interesting stories
Brevity
Fun
To learn something new
Good visuals
To achieve something important
Interesting quotations
Variety
Then expand this list by adding the 
opposite
 of what people hate. For instance, since people hate word-y slides, using “sparse slides” would make you more interesting. Your list might now include:
Sparse slides (not word-y)
Short paragraphs (not long)
Clear headings (not too few, or too boring)
Minimal background information, especially at the start (avoids the tedious 10-slide scene-set).
Using the right channel (don’t give a presentation if a chat’s all that’s needed).
Relevant (thus avoiding the dreaded “why am I here?”).
The next step is to think what you could do, to be more like the list. For instance, if you want your presentations to be more interactive, you could ask more questions, or put people in pairs to discuss topics. Your list might now look like this:






This table isn’t exhaustive. But it’s a good start. In fact, it’s such a good start, you might think “How on earth am I going to do all that?”
Well, you don’t have to do “all that”. But, to be more interesting, you’ll have to do more than none of it.
So, identify 1–2 things from the right-hand column that would make a huge difference and be relatively easy to do. Do them; fine-tune them; then, once they’re working, incorporate another 1–2 and so on.
Or, of course, you can set your sights higher, and incorporate all the techniques in this chapter. A good example of someone who’s done this is Charlie Lawson, who is the UK National Director of BNI, the world’s largest referrals and networking organization. He uses pretty much every tip in the table, and is an excellent trainer. I asked him what his favourite one was. He said:
“When you told me people learn most when I’m not talking! They like interactivity. They like thinking. They like applying my ideas to their situation.
This means I’m now always looking for opportunities to shut up. They love it. They learn more. And it’s easier for me. So, everyone wins!”













35


When you want to use “word pictures” to help people remember things


Here’s a great way to help people remember your key messages. I’m going to use the seven drivers of shareholder value as my example:
1.
 Sales growth.
2.
 Profit margin.
3.
 Cost of capital.
4.
 Investment in working capital (“working capital” being a business’s short-term assets/liabilities that help it run smoothly. It’s like oil in a machine – too much is expensive; too little, and the machine breaks down).
5.
 Investment in fixed assets.
6.
 Tax.
7.
 Competitive advantage period.
So, my question: If I asked you to memorize all seven, such that you could recall them weeks from now, how would you do it?
I guess you’d read the list a few times until it stuck? But that’s boring, takes ages, and won’t stay in your long-term memory. You’d remember some tomorrow, but in a week?
One of my previous jobs involved teaching accountants how to pass their professional exams. This list was one of the many lists they had to remember. And, as you’ve just seen, it’s pretty forgettable – especially in a pressurized exam room. So, instead of learning this list, I asked them to imagine something very different:
1.
 Think of a sailing boat with three sails: one small, one medium and one huge.
2.
 Marge Simpson is driving the boat.
3.
 She’s wearing a red cap with the price tag attached.
4.
 The boat isn’t in the sea – it’s floating on oil in a container.
5.
 A baby donkey is attached to the side of this oil container.
6.
 It’s been attached by some tacks.
7.
 It has a tennis racket in its mouth.
Here’s how the two lists are linked:
1.
 Three growing sails = sales growth.
2.
 Marge Simpson = profit marge-in.
3.
 The cap with the price tag = cost of CAPital.
4.
 Oil = working capital.
5.
 Just as a baby pig is called a piglet, pretend a baby donkey (“ass”) is an asset, fixed to the side = fixed asset.
6.
 . . . by tacks = tax.
7.
 You often hear the word “advantage” when watching tennis = competitive advantage period.
You’re much more likely to remember this second list. My students did. And when it mattered: in the exam room. In fact, I met one of them recently for the first time in 10 years. He told me he could still remember it!
As well as being useful, “word pictures” are just more 
fun
 than a “word list”, aren’t they? I mean, which do you prefer?
So, when you’ve got a few key messages that people need to recall instantly, consider using a “word picture”. The more unusual the pictures, the more impactful they are (just like the “don’t think of a green hippo” idea).
Your lists don’t need to be as long as my example. For instance, let’s say you only want to remember three techniques from this book – think outside the box (chapter 37), have pit-stop meetings (chapter 7) and use BO to get a “yes” (chapter 18), you might use:
A cardboard box with arms and legs (think outside the box).
Standing on a Formula One car in the pits (pit-stop meetings).
Spraying deodorant under his smelly armpits (BO).
As you can see, these can be pretty memorable.















36


When you want to use initials to help people remember things


Comedian Bob Monkhouse used to say presentation skills were all about your ABC and XYZ:
A
lways 
B
e 
C
onfident
e
X
amine 
Y
our 
Z
ipper
Great advice!
Another example: my wife Emma read lots of baby books when Maia was born. But, when she had Tom nearly four years later, she didn’t re-read one of them – 
Secrets of
 
the Baby Whisperer
 – because she remembered it’s advice about making things EASY:
E
at – when the baby wakes up, give her food.
A
ctivity – after the food, encourage her to do something.
S
leep – after the activity, put her to sleep.
Y
ou – when she’s asleep, do something you want to do.
And one more example: when people ask me for an easy way to prepare communication, I tell them to RAMP it up:
R
esults – what you want the recipient to do afterwards (your Call To Action at the end).
A
FTERs – why they will be better off AFTER doing it (your engagement piece at the start).
M
echanism – how you’re going to deliver the communication (email, meeting, presentation).
P
reparation – once you’ve done RAM, only then can you begin to prepare.
Initial letters help people remember lists, especially when the word is short, and relates to your message (like, this is an EASY way to look after your baby).
There are only four steps to creating these lists:
1.
 Identify your key words.
2.
 Highlight the initial letters.
3.
 Turn these initials into a word (use an online anagram generator if it helps).
4.
 If you can’t find an anagram, find synonyms for your words, and repeat with the new initials.
To show what I mean by the last point, here’s how I got to RAMP. I started off with:
D
o – what you want people to do afterwards.
B
enefit – why they’ll benefit from doing it.
C
hannel – which communication channel you’ll use.
P
reparation.
Now, no anagram generator is going to do much with the initials DBCP, so I thought of other words I could use instead:
Do, objective, aim, result
Benefit, AFTER, aid, help
Channel, mechanism, process
Preparation, create, write, narrative
And, from the various combinations of initials, I ended up with RAMP (it was either that or DAMN!)















37


When you want to use games and activities to make your point




Here are three quick puzzles for you:










Puzzle 1


A blind beggar had a brother who died. What relation was the blind beggar to the brother who died? (The answer isn’t “brother”.)














Puzzle 2


Arthur lives with his parents in London.


Last week, while his parents were out, Arthur’s next-door neighbour Sophie came round to spend the evening. At 8pm, she popped out to buy a newspaper.


Just then, two robbers broke into the house and, ignoring Arthur, stole the TV and computer.


Arthur had never seen the robbers before. They had no legal right to remove the goods. Yet he did nothing to stop them. In fact, he didn’t even act surprised by what he saw.


Why not?












Puzzle 3
Colin went to a party and drank some of the punch. He then left early. Everyone else at the party who drank the punch subsequently died of poisoning. None of them had eaten or drunk anything else that could have poisoned them.
Colin didn’t put anything in the punch after he drank it, nor did anyone else.
Why didn’t he die?
How did you get on? The answers are “It was his sister”, “Arthur was a baby”, and “the poison was in the ice. Colin drank his punch before the ice had melted”.
Top tip: things look different depending on your perspective.
Here’s another one – join up the nine dots with four straight lines. The only rule: your pen can’t leave the paper.




Need a clue? This puzzle is where the phrase “think outside the box” comes from.
Top tip: to come up with new ideas, think in new ways. Don’t be constrained by your usual thought processes.
People like games and activities, as long as they’re:
1.
 Fun.
2.
 Delivered at the right time – so not during a redundancy announcement, for example; and
3.
 Have a point, like the “Top tips” above.
So, since they’re popular, include some. Use ones you’ve seen before. Search online for them. Ask people for recommendations.
As long as they tick these three boxes, they make your communications more enjoyable for everyone; which, of course, makes them more likely to work.





















38


When you want to enjoy using PowerPoint




I can’t recall ever seeing a chapter about 
enjoying
 PowerPoint before.


But it’s important. If 
you
 don’t enjoy it, how can you expect your audience to? As you know, PowerPoint has lots of negative connotations. For example, two phrases I often hear are:




“I don’t feel comfortable making presentations.”


“I use PowerPoint as a Comfort Blanket.”




Which does beg the question: How rubbish must PowerPoint be as a 
Comfort
 Blanket, if everyone feels so 
uncomfortable
 using it? It’s not a Comfort Blanket; it’s a Habit Blanket.


Audiences 
hate
 sitting through tedious, same-y slides. Presenters hate delivering alongside them. So, here’s a few simple guidelines to help you – and your audience – enjoy your slides.






1.  Go to PowerPoint last, not first


PowerPoint should be a tool to convey your thinking, not the way you think. So start your preparation by first identifying what you want your audience to do as a result of your presentation, then create good content. Then, and only then, open up PowerPoint.


This is much more likely to work than starting with “Right, what slides have I already got that I can use?”






2.  Use the visual thing for visual things


PowerPoint is an excellent tool for communicating visual messages – graphics, charts and so on.


But it’s a 
terrible
 way to communicate full sentences and reasoned arguments. You’re better at those.


Either use visual, text-light slides; or detailed, text-heavy documents. Don’t create something that tries to be both but ends up being neither.






3.  Make yourself smile


Use a visual that makes you smile. If you like it, your audience probably will. Either choose one you’ve seen before, ask your colleagues for suggestions, or find one online – it’s easy to do: there are 
thousands
 of them.






4.  Press “B” or “W”


My favourite thing about PowerPoint: ensure your audiences look at you – not your slides – by blanking out the slides when you’re talking. Press B (for black) or W (for white) to do this.






5.  Use PowerPoint shortcuts


This helps you look polished when presenting. Two very useful ones are:




Press the function key “F5” to start your presentation in show mode.


Once in show mode, to jump to slide 8, press “8” and “enter”. This is much better than pressing the “up” cursor 26 times.








6.  Chat, don’t rant


Most presenters and audiences prefer discussion to monologue. So, whenever you can, include discussion topics in your presentations.


Maybe have a slide that just says “discussion time”, or a visual of people talking? Or, blank your slides (see #4) and ask a question to start a discussion – “So, how do you think this will impact us?” or “Before I carry on, does this idea seem sensible to you?”






7.  Unclutter your slides


Always remember that your slides should accompany – not duplicate – you. They mustn’t tell the whole story, otherwise there’s no point you being there. Only put key, simple, digestible words/visuals on your slides, for you to elaborate on (the next chapter shows you how to do this).


When you master this, it helps you stand out. Neil Fuller, who’s been a Senior Executive at two global financial institutions, told me it’s been a real differentiator for him:




“My presentations get things done. Now that I use my slides to enhance my presentations – rather than simply reading out the bullet points – people understand my messages, and act on them much more quickly. And, because most people don’t present in this way, it helps me stand out from the crowd.”








8.  And, the best one of all?


I love using slides when they help my audience understand something. I 
hate
 using them when they’re not needed, because they stifle discussion and thought.


So, whenever you can, 
don’t
 use slides.




A point to ponder
Many years ago, there was no such thing as PowerPoint. If people wanted visuals, they used flipcharts. This often led to less words and better visuals because they were a hassle to create. They added to the audience experience.
Nowadays, it’s so easy to put everything on slides that . . . well, people put everything on slides. And, to paraphrase Jeff Goldblum in 
Jurassic Park
 when he’s advising against resurrecting dinosaurs . . . when asking yourself whether you should use all PowerPoint’s capabilities, think “Just because you 
could
 doesn’t mean you 
should
”.















39


When you want to create great visuals to enhance your message


Have you ever seen a slide like this?




And have you ever thought: “This is 
terrible.
 It’s boring. It isn’t tailored to me. I just don’t care.”
Now two worrying questions:
1.
 Have 
you
 ever used wordy slides like this?
2.
 And what do you think your audience thought when you did?
Your slides should enhance your message, not dilute it. In fact, I’ve seen slides which actually 
contradict
 the message, like the one above: the “cutting-edge approach” doesn’t extend to the slide design, apparently.
Fortunately, it’s easy to transform these boring slides. There are six easy steps – my Slide Rules.


Step 1: Improve your title
This is a quick way to show your slides are useful. All you do is take your original title – in this case, “About us” – and ask yourself why it’s interesting for the audience. In our example, assuming they want to know if you can help their colleagues enjoy their jobs more, a better slide would be:




This doesn’t take long, but makes a big difference. Admittedly, it still looks horrible – the next steps will remedy this – but at least it’s now in the audience’s interest to hear it.
Incidentally, if you don’t know why they’ll find the slide interesting, they won’t!


Step 2: Prioritize your points
People remember more of your top points than the bottom. It’s the same with paragraphs – you remember the top line more than the last. So the second step is to re-order your points, with the best (from the audience’s point of view) at the top and the worst at the bottom:




Again, this takes hardly any time – it’s just cut and paste.


Step 3: Remove as many low-priority points as possible
One reason that slides become cluttered is because presenters use them as speaker prompts.
But slides are supposed to help the 
audience
, not the presenter. After all, the presenter can put her notes on a table, rather than on the big shiny screen that everyone can see.
So remove your unimportant points. This is extremely easy to do, because you put these at the bottom in Step 2. So, Step 3 is simply to (if possible) remove the bottom point; then second bottom; and so on, until you come to one that’s too important to remove.
I like this step:
It only takes a few seconds
But it means you’ve wiped out your worst bits
And it doesn’t do any harm – after all, you can still verbalize these points if you want to
Our slide might now show:




Can you see how the first three steps have made this slide much better already? Now let’s make it even more impactful.


Step 4: Remove the unimportant words
When presenting, there are two “people” speaking – the presenter and the slides. You don’t want both “people” saying exactly the same words (it’s boring; and you might as well just hand your slides out for people to read).
This means that, although the presenter speaks in full sentences, your slides shouldn’t. Step 4 removes all the non-key words, leaving us with:








Step 5: Insert slide-builds


Please don’t think of a green monkey.


I imagine you thought of a green monkey.


Similarly, if you show lots of points on a slide, and ask the audience not to read ahead, they’ll read ahead.


But you don’t want them to. You want them listening to you, not wishing you’d hurry up and get to later points they’ve already read.


The only way to stop an audience reading ahead is to click to bring up the next point. In our example, this would mean three clicks for the three points. (By the way, it’s better if each point just appears. Having it whoosh in from the left, or do a sweeping arc from the right, is just distracting and annoying.)




Step 6: Make the slides look nice
You’ve now got your slide content right. The only problem? It still looks very unappealing. So, we need to change this.
There are hundreds of books on creating good visuals (if you want to read up on this, Nancy Duarte’s books, 
Slide:ology
 and 
Resonate
 are worth a read). But, even without reading these, there are lots of improvements you can make very quickly. Here are three ideas. None take long, but each dramatically improve the look:


 




There are other designs, of course, but you get the idea. And every one of these is miles better than where we started:




Even better, of course, the changes took virtually no time to do.
Let’s finish with two final tips . . . 




Useful Tip 1: Prepare two slide-sets, not one


You’ll use PowerPoint in one of two ways:




1.
 As an accompaniment when you’re presenting; and/or


2.
 To send before/after/instead of your presentation, as a permanent record




These two uses pose a problem regarding what to put on your slides:




The former needs 
sparse
 slides, prepared using the six steps in this chapter.


The latter needs 
full
 slides (since you’re not there, the slides must contain 
everything)
.




Therefore, it’s 
impossible
 for one slide-set to satisfy both objectives. How can something only tell part of a story, whilst simultaneously telling the entire story?


So, when you’re presenting alongside – and also emailing separately – a slide-set, prepare two versions: one sparse and one full.


This sounds like twice the work. But it isn’t. You just create the full set, then create a duplicate set using the six Slide Rules.


Since the two slide-sets now give both audience types everything they need, both types of presentation are more likely to work first time. So, weird though it sounds, it’s much quicker to create two versions, not one.




Useful Tip 2: Preparing “Compare and Contrast” slides
Let’s now look at how to apply the six steps to an important topic that people rarely do well – showing how your proposed idea is better than the alternatives. For instance, when persuading:
Bosses to accept your proposal.
Your team to change behaviours.
Customers to choose you over the competition.
Before and after comparisons, to show the “after” is much better.
You do this using what I call “Plumber Slides”. Imagine you have a burst water pipe and ask a plumber if they can help you. The plumber replies by explaining how great their process is, using this slide:




Well, it’s not great, is it? As before, you’ll probably think “This is 
terrible.
 It’s boring. It isn’t tailored to me. I just don’t care”.
You’re also probably thinking “Hurry up – my house is flooding”.
There are two main problems with this slide:
It doesn’t address your audience’s key issue – the sodden carpets; and
Your audience can’t compare and contrast. Is this process better/worse/the same as other plumbers?
You address the first of these by improving the title; and the second by drawing out the differences (all plumbers do points 1, 3, 5 and 7, but only this one does 2, 4 and 6).
So, a better slide – having applied the slide rules – would be:




You’d click to show each of the three right-hand side points separately, to allow for discussion.
Look how much better this is than the original. It’s nicer to look at. It shows why this plumber’s better than the alternatives. It’s benefits-rich. It’s easier to follow . . . it’s just more 
persuasive.
 And remember: it’s the 
same
 plumber.
You can transform your messages – and therefore your enjoyment of delivering them – by transforming your slides. Your visuals are that important. What changes would your audiences 
love
 you to make?















40


When you want to start a presentation brilliantly (when your audience is large and/or doesn’t know you)




Have you ever looked at a conference speaker and thought “Why am I listening to 
you
?”


That’s pretty unpleasant for you.


And it’s 
terrible
 for him.


Similarly, when 
you’re
 the speaker, you want your audience to think – before you even walk on stage:




1.
 I need to hear this topic; and


2.
 From this person.




To help achieve both, ask your introducer to say two things:




1.
 Why your topic is critical to the audience; and


2.
 Why you can help.




For example:






“As we all know, things are difficult right now. Our competitors continue to raise their game. Our customers are demanding more and more from us, for no extra money. We have to go up a level.


I’m delighted to say that our next speaker will help us do that. She’s an acknowledged expert on transformational change. Her book X is the reference book in this area. Her client X said ‘XXX’ about her. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome on stage Mrs X.”






Without the first paragraph, the audience might think “Why am I listening?”; without the second, “Why am I listening to 
her
?”


And, of course, it’s much better for 
someone else
 – not you – to say how great you are (even if you’ve written the intro for them – something your introducer will often ask you to do anyway).




Start with a bang
So, your intro couldn’t have gone better. But there’s now the small matter of delivering a high-impact Sentence One. And, even after a great introduction, it’s not easy to hook them instantly. So, try this:
1.
 Before your presentation, ask around to find your audience’s 2–3 biggest concerns.
2.
 Start your presentation with the phrase “Have you ever”, followed by these concerns.
For example, I recently spoke at a conference where I discovered the audience felt their jobs were ruined by needless conference calls, meetings and presentations. So I started my keynote with:
Good morning everyone. I have some questions for you:
Have you ever been on a conference call that was terrible? [audience laughter and murmurs of agreement]
Have you ever attended a meeting and thought “Why am I here?” [More laughter and agreement]
Have you ever been to a presentation and thought: “Please give me a print-out of your slides and let me go. I can read them much quicker than you’re going to.” [More laughter and agreement]
After just four sentences, they were thinking “This guy understands me. He’s done his research” and – more importantly – “He can help me. He’s worth listening to.”
So, introducing presentations with “Have you ever” can be very useful. Did you notice how this chapter started?















41


When you want to appear polished, even if you haven’t practised much




You often have two conflicting issues when presenting:




You want to look polished and impressive.


This takes time to achieve, and you haven’t got much of it.




This chapter addresses both. In fact, my customers frequently tell me this chapter’s technique – called “bye-hi” – has the highest value:time ratio, in that it:




1.
 Brings lots of value.


2.
 Takes minimal time.


3.
 Is much better than the more commonly used alternatives:
Doing lots of full run-throughs. This tends to mean you spend less time on the ending than the beginning, so the presentation often fizzles out. Also it doesn’t flow that well.
Writing the script in full. This makes presenters too robotic and not focused enough on the audience.
Winging it on the day. Unless you’re very skilled and/or lucky, this is unlikely to be as good as if you’d practiced (and, even if it does go well, imagine what you could have achieved if you’d rehearsed).




Bye-hi works when you’re presenting either as part of a team or on your own. I’ll start with the former, then show how to apply it to the latter.






Polished presenting (when you’re in a team)


A relay race is often won or lost at the baton change. After all, runners are great at running. It’s the handover where problems can arise.


Similarly, presenting teams often come unstuck at the “speaker change”. After all, presenters are great at presenting. It’s the handover where problems can arise.


So, just as relay teams repeatedly practice their baton changes, so too must your team practice your handovers.


This is where you use bye-hi: at the end of her slot, Presenter One says “bye” to her subject (because it’s finished) and “hi” to Presenter Two’s (because it’s starting):




“So (bye) I’ve shown how this project will help our workforce. But (hi) the financials have to stack up too, something that Jane will now run through with you.”




A bye-hi will help your audience know that the topic is changing. They also seamlessly introduce the next presenter, who can crack on with her topic rather than introducing it herself.




Polished presenting (when you’re on your own)
Similarly, when you’re presenting on your own, use bye-hi to link your topics, slides and messages. This means that the quickest and best way for you to practise is:




In other words, script, fine-tune and practice your:
1.
 Start: this 
must
 be good. If it isn’t, the rest might well not be.
2.
 Links (bye-hi): a good check you’ve got this right – when you read all your links in order, they should tell the story of your presentation.
3.
 End: this must also be good, so your audience does what you want them to.
Once your start, links and end are flowing well, do a run-through – quickly at first, to check the flow; then more detailed.
Let’s finish with another bye-hi:
So, that’s covered the detail behind how to practice quickly. Let’s now look at a quick summary of the key points . . . 















42


When you want to prepare for – and deliver – an excellent Q&A session


We’ve all sat through great presentations which were ruined by a tedious Q&A. It just ends up depressing for everyone.
Since Q&As make or break your presentations, you must be brilliant at them. But, despite their importance, most people don’t give them the attention they deserve. Do these pie charts sound like you?




You’ll have your own proportions for your situation of course. But, in my experience, it’s rare to find people who practice Q&As as much as they should, given how important they are.
Here are nine simple techniques to help you deliver excellent Q&As:






1.  Be clear


Tell people upfront whether you want questions during your talk, or at the end (it’s often a good idea to check protocol with the organizer beforehand).










2.  Be quick


When Mr. X asks a question, it’s quite possible only Mr. X cares about the answer. Don’t assume the whole audience does. Once you realize you might be boring everybody apart from Mr. X, your answers become much more punchy.










3.  Shut up


Once Mr. X is happy with your answer, move on – even if you know more about the topic.










4.  Don’t overrun


Your audience thinks the Q&A is part of your allotted time. So don’t allow it to cause you to overrun. Nobody’s ever grateful you did.


If you think you might go over your time, ask them whether they want you to continue or to wrap things up.










5.  Start well


Avoid the dreaded tumbleweed moment that often follows “Does anyone have a question?” Instead, use the more positive “So, who has my first question?”










6.  Prepare properly


Rehearse answers to likely questions, including the ones you’re dreading.


After all, if you don’t, you can pretty much guarantee somebody will ask them, and you then need to create your wonderful answer “live” in front of a potentially hostile audience.










7.  Remove concerns


If you know your audience is worried about a topic, pre-empt and remove their concerns during your presentation – “I know that many of you are worried about the cost of this. Let me put your minds at rest by showing that . . .”


If you don’t, they might ask awkward questions about it.


Or, even worse, they won’t – which means they’ll leave the room still worried.










8.  Easy Peasy


Here’s a technique that helps you frame answers to difficult questions. It’s one that’s often taught on Customer Service courses – ECPC (Easy Peasy):




E
mpathize – “I can see why you’re worried about the impact on your colleagues.”


C
larify – “Can I be clear that it’s just the inbound calls you’re concerned about? Or, does it extend to outbound too?”


P
ropose – “In that case, I suggest we deal with it as follows . . .”


C
onfirm – “Does this answer your question?”










9.  Never guess
If you don’t know the answer to a question, never guess. It’s the wrong thing to do. And people see right through it, whatever you think. Plus, you have to remember what you’ve said – and you probably won’t.
Instead, say something like “That’s a great question. I don’t have all the information to answer it now. I’ll speak to Mrs. X this afternoon, and promise to get back to you before the end of the day.”
Do all nine, and your Q&As will be more impactful. This means you will be.

















43


When you want to ensure your important initiatives succeed




Have you ever tried to launch a new initiative, but it didn’t go well?


That’s just a horrible situation, and one you won’t want to repeat.


Two techniques that will help future launches go better are:




1.
 
Communicating upfront:
 discover – as early as possible – your key people’s goals, hopes and concerns with your initiative. Then adapt your approach and communications to show how your initiative addresses these areas.


2.
 
Communicate throughout:
 keep talking – communicate proactively and effectively before, during and after your initiative.






Step 1: Communicating upfront
One of my customers was recently about to launch a new initiative, which included recruiting a new senior team. They wanted to explain to their workforce how things would work, and the benefits these new recruits would bring to the company.
I advised that they ask questions beforehand, to make sure their communications focused on the right things. When they did this, they discovered people weren’t excited at all. In fact, they were fearful for their jobs. They thought these new “superstars” would mean redundancy or demotion.
Once we knew this, our communications changed in every way. They had to. But, can you imagine the disaster that would have happened if we hadn’t asked?
So, you 
have
 to ask upfront, to find their goals, hopes and concerns. Incidentally, good questions are: What are your goals? Your hopes? Your concerns?
If there aren’t many people, ask them individually or in small groups. If there are lots, it might be quickest to survey them. There’s lots of good survey software around – much of it cheap – so it’s easy to do. It’s also easy to get it wrong, so remember:




Here’s an example of how your covering email might therefore look:
Let’s stop wasting time doing needless things
All of us are too busy. We need to free up some time.
As a management team, we’re committed to changing our working practices, to give you the time you need to do the job you want to do.
To help us focus on the right areas, please can you click on the link below and answer a few quick questions about your priorities? It will only take two minutes max.
We’ll then incorporate your views into our changes. We’ll also share a summary of everyone’s responses with you.
We want to move quickly with this, so the deadline for your responses is INSERT DATE. The link to the survey is INSERT LINK.
We’re asking everyone for their views on this. So, please do respond by the deadline so we can include yours.
Thanks for your help.
The link again: INSERT LINK


Step 2: Communicating throughout
Once you know everyone’s goals, hopes and concerns, plan your communication approach accordingly. This is much better than the frequently-seen-but-never-good “Right, I’ve now finished my initiative. Who shall I tell?”
Clearly, the earlier you consider your communication, the better – and shorter – it’s going to be. Also, preparing early allows you to proactively build anticipation by saying such things as:
“Our initiative’s uncovered some useful insights already. I was assuming I’d share these later, but would you prefer a quick update now?”
“I’m looking forward to discussing our findings. I can already see there’ll be huge cost savings for us.”
And here’s some proof that “early is good”:
I’ve worked with many companies to help important initiatives land. Many of them first approached me towards the end of the initiative, when they had a 
problem
. Almost always, they hadn’t prepared early enough: they hadn’t asked questions upfront and/or hadn’t considered the communication element at all.
Interestingly, they now call me at the 
start
 of key projects not the end. This ensures they do the right preparation at the right time. Understandably, this has made a huge difference to how well their initiatives land. 
So, what could you do, to think about your communication earlier than you do now?















44


When you want to have good two-way conversations


Have you noticed how some people don’t have good conversations? Instead, they take turns to monologue:
Alice: 
I had a good meeting today. Sally signed off my project.
Bob: 
I did too. We had the most effective Board meeting we’ve ever had.
Alice: 
I know what you mean. I was dreading asking Sally. You know what she’s like.
Bob: 
I know. And our Board meetings always drag on.
At first glance, it looks like Alice and Bob are chatting. They’re not. They’re discussing 
totally different things.
When we chat, we should – as Dr Stephen Covey said “seek first to understand, then to be understood”. A better approach would be:
Alice: 
I had a good meeting today. Sally signed off my project.
Bob: 
Great – tell me what happened.
Alice: 
I was dreading asking her. You know what she’s like.
Bob: 
I know. So, how did you convince her?
Alice: 
Well, I . . . [tells story].
Bob: 
And how did you feel?
Alice: 
To be honest, relieved. I . . . [tells story].
Bob: 
Well done. I had a good meeting today too.
This version is much better. Bob listened to Alice. He responded to what she said, rather than waiting for his turn to speak. She, in turn, is now more likely to show interest in his topic. After all, when both parties listen, both parties benefit.
Which of the two conversations sounds like you? If it can be the former, the good news is that this is one of those important areas that’s quite easy to fix, in that you “just” have to do three things:
1.
 Talk less: if you’re talking, you’re not listening. So, when you think it’s your turn to speak, remember to WAIT, which stands for 
W
hy 
A
m 
I
 
T
alking?
2.
 Ask more: when someone says something, rather than giving your point of view, ask questions to uncover more.
3.
 Remember to do it: this is the hardest – partly because the first two aren’t hard, but mainly because it’s hard to remember 
when it matters
 in a conversation. To help with this, you can:
when talking on the phone, write “Ask” or “WAIT” in big letters on your notepad; and/or
insert a weekly diary reminder called “Which meetings shall I ask more/talk less in this week?”
And, of course, you can tell when it
 isn’t
 working, because a conversation won’t be going as planned.
When this happens, simply ask yourself “Am I talking too much/asking too little?” If so, start asking the other person to explain what they’ve just said, to give more detail etc. You’ll find the benefits of doing so far outweigh the problems if you don’t.















45


When you want to enjoy attending networking events


“Working a room” is an important business skill. But it isn’t easy. How to start? What to say? How to make it an interesting two-way conversation? And – something people often ask for help with – how to get away from someone boring, without being rude!
Most people don’t feel comfortable networking. In fact, I’ve found that many think it’s harder for them than others. For instance, I recently asked a conference audience of 450-ish whether they thought networking was harder for them than everybody else in the room. Virtually everybody put their hands up. I said “Well, you can’t 
all
 be right!”
Yes, networking is hard. But it’s hard for pretty much everybody. This chapter removes all that, by showing you the four steps of a successful networking conversation.




But, before that, here are some simple guidelines to help you enjoy networking, rather than just “get through it”:
Remember: the aim of networking is to find useful people, and agree to meet them again at a later date. This means that working a room is “only” a:
filtering exercise: will it benefit you both if you see them again?
diary exercise: if you 
do
 want to meet, agree when you’ll do so.
Be polite. Ask about them first. Listen intently. Don’t rant on about yourself. Don’t look over their shoulder as they’re talking, trying to find someone “more interesting”.
Networking is 
not
 selling. Nobody will make a buying decision at a networking event (even if they seem mad keen, you’ll still have to meet later to do the paperwork). So, just aim for a subsequent meeting, not a sale.
Make sure you’re in the right room. If you want to speak to CEOs, go to rooms full of CEOs. Also, whenever possible, look at the Guest List beforehand, to identify who you want to meet.
You only need two things at a networking event: business cards and a pen. If you forget one of these, let it be your business cards – you absolutely need a pen, as you’ll see below. After all, you can always use their card to contact them.




The four steps of a pleasant, productive networking conversation




Step 1: In


Get 
into
 the conversation. Approach someone and ask “Can I join you?”


When they say “yes” (and they will – who’d be so rude as to blurt out “NO”?), you’ve completed this step already.




Step 2: You
Talk about them first. It’s easier, since you don’t have to think of amazing things to say about yourself. It’s more polite. It helps them feel comfortable with you – after all, people love talking about themselves. And, because you’re learning about them, you can tailor what you say about yourself later on.
To get them talking, ask good questions. There are three main types:








Step 3: Me
They will then ask about you. Remember, it’s more interesting to talk about the AFTERs you 
cause
 – “I help companies pay less tax” – than what you 
do
 – “I’m an accountant” (chapter 31 has more detail on how to craft enticing Elevator Pitches).
When they ask for more information, remember “Facts Tell Stories Sell”. It’s more interesting, memorable and compelling for them to hear successes you’ve helped others achieve than it is to hear about your products and services (and 
please
 don’t whip out your brochure).






Step 4: Out
At the end of your conversation, if you want to follow-up afterwards, ask their permission:
Ask
 for their business card.
Ask
 when they want you to call them.
Ask
 if you can write this date/time on the back of their card (this makes it “official” that you’ll be calling).
Then, end the conversation with “I’ve enjoyed talking to you tonight. I’ll call you on Monday, as agreed” (Note the past tense here – 
“I enjoy
ed
”
: this shows the conversation is over).
If you 
don’t
 want to follow-up, use their answer to step 2’s Big Question:
“I’ve enjoy
ed
 our conversation. You mentioned earlier that you want to speak to surveyors. If I bump into any, would you like me to pass them your way?” [Yes please] “Great, I will do. Enjoy your evening.”








The most important thing about networking
The crux of networking is that you 
must
 follow-up. If you don’t, everything in this chapter becomes a waste of time. So, call when you said you would; prepare what you said you would; help as you said you would; and if your follow-up is 
written
, make sure it impresses (the next chapter has more on this).
Having the ability and discipline to follow-up sets you apart. Far too many people don’t (I imagine you could name a few, without thinking too hard). But it’s an effective, quick way to build quality relationships with quality people. 















46


When you want to help people read your documents quickly


Writing documents is rarely fun.
And then pity the poor person who has to read them. Even if you’ve done a great job, your reader will be busy, have competing priorities, and want to see your key points as quickly as possible. Sad to say, your document might not (won’t?) be their Number 1 Priority that day.
Since very few people love reading documents – and 
nobody
 likes reading them twice – readers need to glean your key points quickly. And, since you’re spending X hours creating it, you might as well spend Y minutes making it easy to read.
There have been many studies into what people find easiest to read. None of them are very surprising, but it’s always good to be reminded of these things:




As I say, this table contains few surprises. I guess the biggest surprise is that people often don’t do all of them.
Do you do all these well? To check, look at a couple of your recent documents. Could you make 1–2 simple improvements, to make things easier for the reader?















47


When you want to improve people’s performance through observation and coaching


“Are our lawyers good on the phone?”
One of my legal customers asked me this the other day. He wanted to know how customer focused his people are. So, I called six firms, including his, telling each of them I’d been in a car crash and asking whether they could help me.
Every one of them asked great Lawyer Questions: “Where did it happen?”, “Were there any witnesses?”, “Have you called the police?” And so on.
But do you know what 
not one
 of them asked?
“Are you OK?”
They were so focused on following the process that they forgot the #1 output: to make sure the customer was alright.
I thought that was pretty alarming. Even worse, if their manager had been observing them, he could well have said they’d done well, because they’d ticked all the steps on their Observation Forms. This shows the problems with these forms – they’re often:
Process focused (“Did you follow the steps?”), rather than output-focused (“Did it work?”); and/or
Too long.
If this sounds like your company, your observations won’t improve things suf­ficiently. After all, since people 
RE
spect what you 
IN
spect, your forms should focus on your high-priority outputs only. For example, let’s say your colleagues’ presentations are too long, too boring and never achieve the desired result. In this case, your observations might only need cover:




Or, if you currently observe whether your salespeople follow each step of the sales process (1. Did you build rapport? 2. Did you ask good open questions? and so on), better questions might be:




Both examples are very similar to ones I’ve used on countless occasions. Each time, they’ve helped transform behaviours, because they’re focusing on only a few (not many) outputs (not inputs).
Also, did you notice how both ended with:
“What one improvement will you make next time?”
As you know, people need something to work on, or they won’t work on anything. And, it’s important to give them something manageable, because of how busy they are. Improving their performance by one thing each time will often provide much better results than giving them 15 areas to focus on after every observation.
Let’s end with a quick question: What one improvement will 
you
 make to your observations next time?















48


When you want to improve people’s performance after annual reviews




Every year, my children show their school reports to their proud father. Like most reports, they focus almost entirely on how they’ve done during the past year, with a couple of comments about how to improve next year.


A lot of staff appraisals are like that: lots about last year and less about next. These serve a purpose, but often can be too retrospective and “discussing”, rather than future-focused and “directing”.






Hold Previews, not Reviews


There are lots of reasons for reviews having this past-focus. One is the title. Calling them “Reviews” leads people to 
review
 past performance, much like a school report.


My company – and many of my customers – never have performance 
reviews
. Instead, we add a “P” to the title and have 
Previews
, often accompanied by a benefits-rich subtitle “Ensuring you have a great next year”.


This changes everyone’s focus entirely. And although our previews contain some past-based discussions – we mustn’t ignore last year, after all – the overwhelming focus is on how we can make things even better next year.




Self-test 1 – Review and Preview


During your staff reviews, what’s the split between discussing the past compared to the future? 50:50? 90:10? 10:90?


Does this split feel appropriate? Or would you both benefit from being more future-focused?


What change(s) could you make to improve this?








Focus on the “What and how”, not just the “What”


Imagine a sales team of two people. One smashes targets all the time, but is horrible to work with; the other sometimes hits targets, but embodies your company’s values and is a joy to work with. Which do you value most?


This isn’t an easy question, and there’s no “right” answer. But to deliver great (p)reviews, you need to:




Know which is more important to you.


Ensure your (p)review materials support this. For instance, I’ve seen companies say “The customer is king”, but their review forms focus almost entirely on whether staff hit their sales numbers for different product lines.






Self-test 2 – What and How


During staff reviews, what’s the split of discussing 
what
 people do, compared with 
how
 they do it? 50:50? 90:10? 10:90?


Does this split feel appropriate?


What change(s) could you make to improve this?






Get the foundations right
(P)reviews are like buildings: the foundations are essential. And although nobody would ever say “Hmmm, 
nice
 foundations”, you’d sure miss them if they weren’t there.
Self-test 3 – The Foundations
Do you always do all of these?
 1.
 Arrive on time to the review, with a clear diary.
 2.
 Give them 100% of your focus, and not be distracted by outside issues.
 3.
 Allow them to overrun if needed.
 4.
 Use a suitable venue.
 5.
 Keep the date sacred (never bumping it for something “more important”).
 6.
 Ensure total confidentiality.
 7.
 Complete your pre-work.
 8.
 Ensure that, in the meeting, they speak at least as much as you do.
 9.
 Recognize successes.
10.
 Proactively manage underperformance.
11.
 Work so closely with them throughout the year that the meeting contains no surprises.
12.
 Make sure you both have actions at the end.
13.
 Do your follow-ups on time.
14.
 Manage your team properly during the year, not just for a one-hour (p)review.
15.
 Think the meetings are worthwhile.
16.
 Ensure your colleagues think they’re worthwhile.
School reports are useful. Parents Evenings that discuss “next year” are even better.
Staff reviews are useful. Previews are even better.
Which do you do? And, what change(s) would improve this?















49


When you want to improve people’s performance when you delegate to them




“If I’d asked my customers what they wanted, they’d have said a faster horse.”


Henry Ford






I love this quote. It makes me smile. And it also makes a great point:




As long as the expert (Henry Ford) knows the beneficiary’s (customer’s) desired 
future
 (to go faster), then the expert can apply his skills to help achieve it.




In fact, the 
expert
 is bound to know more about how they can help than the bene­ficiary ever could, because they’re the 
expert
. This is one of the reasons Steve Jobs didn’t believe in customer research, saying that it was Apple’s job to know what customers wanted before they did.


This concept has big implications when you’re delegating (in other words, when you’re the 
beneficiary
).




When buying from suppliers:




Don’t specify the deliverables (“Please give me a new computer system”).


Instead, explain your desired 
future
, and ask how they can best help (“We want our office to be more efficient, removing our bottlenecks and freeing up everyone’s time. What do you suggest?”).




When delegating to an expert:




Don’t specify how the job is to be done (“I need a report by Friday”). Even if you say “Pretty please, could I possibly have the report by Friday”, you’re still focusing on the job. As my wife Emma says: “This is like someone barking out orders with fluff on”. This stifles people’s expertise and/or engagement. It often leads to suboptimal results.


Instead, explain your desired 
future
, and ask the expert how they can best help (“We need to work more closely with the Finance Department. I’d like to have made some progress on this by the end of the week. How do you think we can achieve this?”).






Delegating obviously depends on a person’s level of expertise. Someone with no experience might need you to guide them on the deliverable. If it helps, brief them using the following approach (it works well in writing or when you talk it through):








My objectives


I want . . . [INSERT YOUR OBJECTIVE I.E. YOUR DESIRED FUTURE STATE]


I know we’re not achieving this now because . . . [INSERT YOUR EVIDENCE THERE’S A PROBLEM]


I’ll know it’s happening when . . . [INSERT YOUR MEASURES OF SUCCESS]






But please bear in mind


We’re constrained by [INSERT THE FACTORS THAT MIGHT GET IN THE WAY]






Immediate next steps


Please can you [INSERT ACTION] by [INSERT DEADLINE].








Here’s an example of how it might look:








My objectives


I want our colleagues to be more engaged.


I know we’re not achieving this now because the Employee Engagement scores are so low. Also, people are turning up later to meetings, and not doing things unless I shout at them!


I’ll know it’s happening when:




They turn up to meetings on time.


They do things I ask first time.


Our staff survey will show improved Employee Engagement scores.








But please bear in mind


We’re constrained by the fact we’ve another big project this month, so everyone is time-poor. Also, the absolute maximum budget for this is $25,000.






Immediate next steps


Please advise how you think we should progress before the end of the week.






The template makes it crystal clear what you want them to help you achieve, but empowers them to devise the best way to do it. You’ll therefore find it often leads to people doing better work in a better way, in a better frame of mind. When you don’t do this, even though you don’t know it, you might be asking for a faster horse . . . 













SECTION E
Eliminate the negatives
How to remove your communication frustrations




Why This Matters
When communication works well, it’s great. People are inspired, motivated and happy. Their minds are uncluttered. They focus on the right things. Stuff gets done.
Unfortunately, it often isn’t like this. There are the obvious day-to-day issues – too much information, everything’s “TOP PRIORITY” and “URGENT”, you daren’t use the restroom for fear of the number of emails you’ll return to.
And there are the less obvious – but equally painful – problems, like how to:
Say “no” when you know it will cause you problems.
Remove people’s concerns about what you’re planning to do.
Start a conversation you know will be challenging.
Get a good outcome following a difficult conversation.
When you think about it, communication “only” has to keep both parties happy, achieve the desired outcomes and be as quick as possible. It shouldn’t be that hard. But it can be. So, here’s how to overcome the communication frustrations you face every day.







50
When you want to stop saying “no” too quickly
The hardest person to convince is often yourself.
After all, you can tell yourself “no” more quickly than anybody else ever could.
There’s one simple change you can make to help get past your biggest critic, and help persuade yourself to say “yes” not “no”.
Harrison (Buzz) Price carried out the feasibility studies that helped Disney choose the locations of its first few theme parks. He said that, when responding to one of Walt Disney’s ideas, you had to say “Yes if”, not “No because”. You can see why. Imagine if Disney had said “no because” to:
Can we marry up hand-drawn animation and sound?
Can we use colour, not black and white?
Can we make the first ever full-length animated film?
Can we build a high-quality theme park?
Can we sell merchandise?
Here’s a quick exercise. Answer these six questions as quickly as you can – the only rule is that your first two words are “No because”:
Can you apply for a better position/job?
 No because . . .
Can you ask for more pay?
 No because . . .
Can you spend time thinking of a great new idea, and share it with your boss?
 No because . . .
Can you stop holding your weekly team meetings that achieve nothing significant?
 No because . . .
Can you praise people more often than you do?
 No because . . .
Can you take up a new hobby?
 No because . . .
“Yes if” helps you find ways to achieve things that you initially think 
can’t
 be done. So, now, repeat the exercise. This time, the only rule is that your first two words are “Yes if”:
Can you apply for a better position/job?
 Yes if . . .
Can you ask for more pay?
 Yes if . . .
Can you spend time thinking of a great new idea, and share it with your boss?
 Yes if . . .
Can you stop holding your weekly team meetings that achieve nothing significant?
 Yes if . . .
Can you praise people more often than you do?
 Yes if . . .
Can you take up a new hobby?
 Yes if . . .
You can see how useful “yes” is when you aren’t sure why you’re saying “no” (the next chapter shows how to say “no” when you 
know
 you want to).
In one way, you’ve only changed two words. But in another way, you’ve changed 
everything
. After all, it can be hard to convince others. But it’s 
impossible
 if you can’t first convince yourself.
And now, I have two final questions for you:
Can you think “Yes if” every time it’s relevant?
 Yes if . . .
And can you help the people who are critical to your success – your team, boss, customers, suppliers and so on – ensure they think “Yes if” too?
 Yes if . . .













51


When you want to say “no” in a way that doesn’t cause you problems


We all get asked to do things that we don’t want to do.


And it’s not always easy to know how to respond. You don’t want to appear unhelpful. But it seems you only have two options, neither of which is very good:


1.
 Say “yes” and wish you hadn’t – bad for you and possibly them.


2.
 Say “no” – bad for them and probably you.


But you have another option:


3.
 Say “I 
can
 help you, but not in the way you suggested”.


This is often the best option, for both you and them. They get the outcome they wanted; and you’ve helped them do so. Even better, this approach is relatively straightforward, in that you only have to remember two things:


1.
 Show willingness to help.


2.
 Explain that you saying “no” to their original request is in their interest.


Here are some examples:


When you’re asked to do something, but are short of time


Them: 


Can you send me a report on X by Friday?


You: 


I can definitely get something to you by then. Exactly what information do you want?


Them: 


[Their answer]


You: 


Sure, I can do that. With deadlines being so tight, rather than you having to read a full report, I’ll do the research and call you Wednesday to discuss it. I can then send over a brief summary of the key points on Thursday. OK?




When you’re asked to do something, but don’t feel able to


Them: 


Can you run a workshop on X for me?


You: 


I want to help, but don’t think that’s the best way I can. I haven’t much experience in running workshops like this, and don’t want to dilute the work you’re doing. Instead, I’ll speak to Mark – he’s a great facilitator – and brief him on what we need him to cover. I can make sure the workshop works by doing X as well. OK?




When you’re asked to prepare a document which will take you ages, which you doubt will be read


Them: 


Please send a document through to me next week


You: 


I’ll be pleased to. I don’t want to waste your time giving you information you don’t want. So, let me ask a couple of quick questions, so I focus on the right things for you.




But what about when someone needs your help, and you just haven’t any time at all?


This is the hardest one, because you can’t do anything about it, even if you wanted to.


You could say something like, “I’d love to help, but I’m back to back – sorry. I hope it goes well for you”. This sounds nice enough, but in effect you’re just saying “no” beautifully. So they don’t benefit from your help, and you don’t benefit from helping.


Instead, you have lots of alternatives:


Recommend someone else who can help – a colleague or supplier you’ve used before.


Spend five minutes (let’s face it, you can always find five minutes) giving an overview of how they should approach it.


Give them a similar document you’ve written before, so they can follow your approach.


Recommend reading material to help them.


Ask if their deadline is flexible, so you can help them later.


Ask your boss/team if anyone has time to help.


Explain to your boss/team that this has come up, and ask if it should be prioritized over existing work.


Like all the examples in this chapter, the best option can often be something other than a definite “no” (either horrible or beautiful) or a definite “yes”. And, once you realize you’ve lots of choices, it’s much easier to say “no” in a way people are happy with.











52
When you want to come up with good ideas, but can’t think of any
People aren’t good at thinking in threes. For example, you might say to your friend:
Shall we go to the cinema or a restaurant tonight? (two options, not three)
Dinner? OK then – Chinese or Italian?
Italian? OK – Il Forno or San Carlo?
Similarly, as you saw in the previous chapter, when people face challenging situations, they tend to think they have only 
two
 solutions. And, if neither is satisfactory, they feel powerless to resolve it.
For example, a company recently asked me to help smooth their relationships with some customers. They were worried because, in the face of an onslaught from an irate customer, they felt they’d only had two options – back down or fight – and neither appealed. They wanted to know how to react if it happened again.
I advised they should find the often-elusive 
third
 option, which would have lots of advantages:
They’d have 50% more choice – three, not two.
Because they’d had to think more deeply, they’d find the third option could well be best.
Once they had the third option, floodgates usually open to give options 4, 5 and 6. So they’d now have 
lots
 more choice.
When I asked for a third option, they thought for a while, then said “next time, we could take a break from the meeting”. And when I prompted with “anything else?”, lots more appeared:
Invite a colleague to join the meeting.
Say “sorry – can you repeat that?” (complaints don’t have the same intensity second time around).
Break the customer’s flow by saying “I’m confused” followed by silence. When they reply “why?”, you’ve regained control.
Persuasively and empathetically help remove the customer’s concerns (see the next chapter for how).
Apologize.
Agree.
Disagree.
Ask them to slow down, so that you can take notes (this can dampen their “energetic fury”).
Arrange another meeting.
The second meeting could be at your premises.
Or theirs.
Or a neutral venue.
Or on the phone.
And so on . . .
When they thought they had two options – and neither worked – they felt there was nothing they could do.
Once they realized they had 
lots
 of options, they knew they could influence the situation.
And, once you’ve convinced yourself, you’ve a much better chance of convincing someone else.
So, here’s a quick exercise: Think of a current problem you have. Quickly identify two actions you could take to resolve it:
1.
 _________________________________________________________________
2.
 _________________________________________________________________
And now come up with a third:
3.
 _________________________________________________________________
Let’s see if you can open the floodgates:
4.
 _________________________________________________________________
5.
 _________________________________________________________________
6.
 _________________________________________________________________
7.
 _________________________________________________________________
Now you have lots more options, choose the one(s) most likely to work.
So, as a general rule, when you think you have no options, assume you have at least three. It’s just a case of finding them. In fact, “thinking in threes” is a useful technique to embed. It helps you see options others can’t, and more quickly.
So, what can you do, to ensure “thinking in threes” becomes your default?
Option 1
 __________________________________________________________
Option 2
 __________________________________________________________
Option 3
 __________________________________________________________













53


When you want to remove someone’s concerns about what you’re planning to do


I was held up at airport security last week, by one of the sweetest things I’ve ever seen.
A small girl in front of me – I guess she was four or five – was devastated that someone wanted to take her Disney Princess Bag from her. She was distraught: tears, screaming . . . the works.
Her parents reassured her that the bag was just being x-rayed and she’d get it back immediately. But she wasn’t buying that. Life had lost all meaning if someone took her bag from her.
After a couple of minutes (I’m sure it felt longer to them), Modern Parenting was replaced by Victorian Parenting, and her Dad snatched the bag and whisked it through security. The girl got the bag back 10 seconds later, but I doubt her vocal cords – or my ears – will ever recover.
You see, sometimes people are concerned about things that don’t worry you. Unlike this girl, they won’t burst into tears about it, but they 
will
 say things like “it’s too expensive”, “we have other priorities”, “I’m not sure you’re experienced enough”, “we’ve no time”, “there’s no resource”. Even though you might not agree, if they think it’s an issue, it is one.
When people have concerns, you have three options:
1.
 
They
 raise the concern. Just like the girl did about her bag, they might do this in a distressed way. Or at the wrong time. Either way, this puts you on the defensive. Not good.
2.
 
Neither
 of you raises it. This is by far the worst. Imagine you’re selling something and your customer thinks it’s too expensive – if it goes unsaid, they just won’t buy. Again, not good.
3.
 
You
 raise it. Weird though it sounds, this is the best option, because the others bring bigger problems.
To raise, and then remove, people’s concerns, there are four steps:




Note: you have to give a persuasive response to their concern. The alternative – “I know you think it’s expensive . . . and it is” – is just not very good! The easiest way to find your best response is to think of a few, and then select the best. For instance, responses to concerns about cost could include:
We’ve agreed that this is worth $1 million if it goes well, and will only cost $20,000. That’s a Return On Investment of over 50/1. I know it’s not easy to find the $20,000, but we 
have
 to. We need to take advantage of opportunities like this.
Which other budget can we use to pay for it?
Who can we ask to sponsor this?
We currently run 100 events a year, each costing around $10,000. Can’t we just do 98, and use the freed-up $20,000 to pay for this?
Shall we stagger the payment?
Should I go back to the supplier, and ask them to change the payment terms?
I can free up $10,000 from my budget. Please could you match this figure from yours?
Which is best? I don’t know – it depends on lots of factors. But having these seven – and I’m sure you could find seven more – helps you find one that works.
In fact, while we’re talking about price, here’s a question for you:
Do you think $2,000 is expensive?
I imagine you’d answer “I’ve no idea. It depends what I’m buying. It’s a lot for a sandwich, but a pretty good price for a new Bentley.”
Discussing price when you don’t know what you’re buying is meaningless. How can you know if it’s a good deal or not?
It’s the same when 
you’re
 selling something that has a price to it. This means that, to reduce people’s pricing objections, don’t mention price until they’re 100% clear what they’re “buying”.
Of course, they’ll often ask “how much is it?” before you’re ready to say. And, if you tell them early like this, they’ll say it’s too expensive and you’ll have to overcome loads of needless objections. So instead say: “I’ve no idea yet. It depends what you want. Let me ask you a few quick questions so I can see how I can best help. Then I’ll be able to tell you the exact cost.”


A Step-By-Step Guide, To Make This Easy To Do
1.
 Identify all their possible concerns – by asking them, asking others, using your experience and so on.
2.
 Think of 3–4 responses to each. Some people find a table helps them do this:




3.
 Decide which 1–2 concerns you need to raise. These will be the ones you 
know
 they’re most worried about. It’s best not to do them all – “And the 71st thing you’re no doubt dreading is . . .”.
4.
 For those you do include, create your script using the four steps “introduce, state, remove, confirm”.
5.
 Practice saying it, until it feels natural.
6.
 Rehearse your responses to the concerns you’re 
not
 including, so you handle the Q&A well.


A Final Thought
It can be hard to remove people’s worries – as the young girl in Manchester Airport will testify – but you 
must
 do all you can to do so. It’s the only way to get things sorted.















54


When you want to remove someone’s final reason for saying “no”


My mum says “you know you’re getting older when you bend down to tie your shoes and think ‘what else can I do while I’m down here?’ ”
You see, there’s always a positive if you look hard enough.
Which is good because life’s full of people who love to say “The answer’s no. Now what was your question?” Life is also full of people who are nearly convinced, but aren’t quite. Both stop you moving forward with your plans.
One way around this – and you won’t believe how easy this sounds, nor how often it works – is to simply include a negative in your question. For example:
“Can you think of a good reason why we 
shouldn’t
 go ahead?”
So when they say “no”, it means “no, there 
aren’t
 any reasons why we 
shouldn’t
”. In other words, “we should”!
In fact, there are only two possible answers they can give to “negative questions” like this. These, and the steps that follow, are:




And doesn’t this look oh-so-easy in a book?!
But, to be honest, it works pretty well in real life too, as long as you remember:
When they say “no”, they’ve said you can start. So, start.
Build instant momentum by – 
immediately
 after they’ve agreed – say what you’ll do, to get things moving.
“Negative questioning” works so well that it’s important to use it with integrity. You’re not looking to convince someone to do something they don’t want to. Instead, you’re helping them agree to something acceptable to them, which their “No Habit” might have prevented.















55


When you want to get good outcomes from challenging conversations




When you’re in an argument, have you ever noticed how the conversation can go round in circles?








A: 


You shouldn’t have done X.






B: 


Well I did.






A: 


Yes, but you shouldn’t.






B: 


Yes, but I did. And you shouldn’t have done Y.






A: 


Yes, but I did.








Sound familiar?


What’s happening here is that you’re both trying to prove the other person’s more “wrong”. But, persuading someone they’re wrong is 
never
 a good way to win an argument. They’ll either defend themselves, or explain why you’re “more wrong”. No, proving they’re “wrong” won’t work. It’s more important to find a solution, than it is to be right.


The key to a successful outcome is to be able to see things from their point of view as well as your own. In superhero films, the villains don’t think that they’re 
villains
 – they’re just doing their thing. Similarly, when someone’s annoying you, they’re not doing it on purpose. They simply have their own views and perspec­tives – both perfectly justified in their eyes – which are shaping their actions.


So, to get good outcomes from challenging conversations, there are two main things to focus on:




1.
 
The future, not the past.
 The key question is “How can we improve things?” not “What the hell were you thinking of?” Talking about the past can help uncover what caused the problem, but stay there too long and it turns into the Blame Game. A good rule of thumb: solutions happen in the 
future
, so spend most of your discussion there. The past is for reference, not residence.


2.
 
“We”, not “you versus me”.
 Again, focus on “How will 
we
 improve things?” not “What the hell were 
you
 thinking of?”




Both of these are so fundamental to resolving conflict that I’ll keep referring to them throughout this chapter.




A Four-Step Approach To Resolving Challenging Situations
To ensure your conversation focuses on both “future” and “we”, there are four key steps:




Step 1: Future-intro
Your first sentence sets the tone for the conversation. When you start by focusing on the future, the conversation is more likely to. When you don’t, it won’t.
The best approach is usually to acknowledge the past, then be clear that the conversation is future-focused. Two examples:
“It’s fair to say neither of us would choose things to be as they are. So, let’s identify ways we can take things forward, so we both feel more comfortable.”; or
“I don’t think either of us enjoyed last week’s meeting. I want to ensure that we both prefer next week’s. Let’s discuss how we can make sure we do.”
Both examples are future-focused (no Blame Game) and avoid the “you versus me”. So, they incorporate the two critical elements:




Step 2: Find their top priority (“Your #1?”)
You’ve a better chance of persuading the other person if you:
Know what’s important to them; and
Show how your proposed solution helps them get more of it
This makes it important to find their priorities straight away. So, immediately after your future-intro, your second sentence might be:
“I want to make sure we’re focusing on the right things. So, what’s your main priority with this?”; or
“I want to make sure this conversation works for you. So, before we start, please can you tell me what your key focus is here?”
When they tell you their answer, if appropriate:
Dig deeper – “Why’s that?” – to find their real drivers; and/or
Write down their key priority, so they see it’s important to you; and/or
If you’re thinking “I’m not sure our chat’s going to achieve their main priority”, don’t say so yet. Instead, just ask “OK, so that’s your first priority. What’s your second?” (having two gives you more options later, as you’ll see).
You can now lead the conversation. So, you can go straight to the future – “So, how can we improve things?”
Or, if you feel you need to discuss the past to find the cause (
not
 to attribute blame), do so first, and then go to the future: “OK, so there are two things to discuss here. Firstly, to find why things went wrong. And secondly – and more importantly – what we can do to fix it?”




Step 3: Past-blockers
Even if you start the conversation the right way, it’s easy for them to drift back to discussing the past too much. It’s OK to do this for a while, but you’ve got to get it back to the future.
You achieve this with past-blocking sentences, which always follow the same structure – “ACKNOWLEDGE 
but
 FUTURE”:
“Thanks for your honesty. I didn’t like it either. 
But
 we agreed it’s important we move things forward for us both. So, let’s now . . .”; or
“I know it was frustrating for you, and I’m sorry for my part in it. 
But
 we agreed our focus today is to see how we can improve things. So, let’s now . . .”; or a simple alternative:
“So, what would make things better?”




Step 4: Next steps (BO)
The conversation absolutely 
must
 end with a next step – one or both of you taking an action to move things forward. This ensures there’s progress. It also moves the line in the sand, so your next conversation starts from a more positive place.
A great technique for securing their agreement is 
BO
, which stands for:
B
 – Benefits: why it’s in their interest to progress things (link this to their #1 priority they identified in Step 2).
O
 – Options: 2–3 next steps for them to choose between, to achieve this #1 priority. Giving them choices increases their likelihood of choosing one of them, since “Shall we do X?” could easily lead to a “No”.
So, examples would be:
“You said earlier that your main priority was that you wanted to look forward to our future meetings. From our discussions, I think we have three choices for how we make this happen – X, Y and Z. Which do you prefer?”, or
“So, let’s look at what we can do to help you feel part of our team again. I can see three good options here: X, Y and Z. Which do you think would work best?”
(To read more about 
BO
, see chapter 18.)








How To Prepare for Challenging Conversations


Now that you know how you want the conversation to flow, it’s just a question of preparing for it in the right way. This involves knowing your:




1.
 Desired outcome following the conversation.
You need to know this 
before
 you start, otherwise how do you know you’ve achieved it?
Have a range of outcomes, because you’re unlikely to get the one thing you want. Also, a range makes it easier for you to identify options for your 
BO
 at the end.


2.
 Scripts for the four steps above:
Your future-intro.
The question you’ll use to find their #1 priority.
2–3 past-blockers, should you need them.
How you’ll introduce your “next steps” at the end.




And, of course, once you’ve prepped, have the conversation as soon as you can (the next chapter shows how to initiate it – something which can be daunting). These things rarely improve if you keep putting them off.




With Challenging Conversations, Does Follow-Up Matter?
Yes. Of course it does.
To do it, simply fire off a quick email confirming what you’ve agreed (don’t ask them to re-confirm in the email – they’ve already said “yes”). For example:

















56


When you want to stop procrastinating about initiating challenging conversations




When I started writing this book, I asked my customers which of my techniques they find the most useful.


The most popular response was this chapter: how to start conversations you feel uncomfortable about, like:




When you want to change how someone thinks of you.


Revisiting a situation that went badly.


Starting an important conversation that you know will be hard.


Situations when you want to ask questions, but don’t want to feel silly.






Serve and Volley: How to Start Awkward Conversations
Although these situations sound hard, the solution is actually quite simple. It’s what I call my “serve and volley” technique. You serve an enticing opening sentence; they return your serve; and then you volley to keep the rally going.
To make this work, you need a great serve – an opening sentence that:
Is intriguing and/or in the other person’s interest for you to continue; and
Stops early, so they say “tell me more” (their return of serve).
This means they’ve asked you for your Sentence Two (your volley), so 
they
 now want 
you
 to start the conversation you wanted to have in the first place. So, applying “serve and volley” to the earlier examples:
Want to change how someone thinks of you?
You: (Serve) I’ve been thinking, I’m not sure the way we work together brings you as much value as it could.
Them: (Return) What do you mean? (This is virtually the only response they could give)
You: (Volley) Well, it’d be better if . . . (and you’re now discussing the topic you wanted to)
Want to revisit a situation that went badly?
You: (Serve) You taught me something invaluable the other day. Thank you.
Them: (Return) What was it? (Again, virtually their only possible response)
You: (Volley) Well, do you remember when X happened? I’ve been thinking about it since, and realize . . . 
Want to start an important conversation that you know will be hard?
You: It’s fair to say that neither of us enjoyed how X went. I have an idea about how I can rectify things.
Them: What is it? (Again, their only possible response)
You: Well, I thought that next time we could . . . 
Choose your own sentences, of course. But if your Sentence One is good, they’ll ask for your Sentence Two. So you’ve successfully started the conversation you felt uncomfortable about.
But what about the other example I gave earlier? The one where you want to ask questions but don’t want to feel stupid? Well, this is one of my favourites; it works every time.
You serve with: “The last thing I want to do is bore you with irrelevant information. So, do you mind if I ask some questions?”
What could they possibly say in response? “No – be irrelevant”?!
Their only possible return is “What do you want to ask?”, and you can comfortably volley your questions back over the net.















57


When you want to stop your messages becoming diluted






When leaders ask me to improve communication cascades within their company, I always ask two questions:
Question 1: When your team cascades your messages, do they enhance them, add nothing or dilute them?
They virtually all say “dilute”.
Question 2: And whose fault is that?
Most say “my team’s”. The rest say “their teams’”. And 
nobody
 says “mine”.
This unearths two big problems:
Answer 1 is, when you think about it, ridiculous. If your team enhances your message, it makes sense to cascade through them. If they don’t, what’s the point of going through them? Why not just skip the middle-man and communicate directly with their teams? But the fact that they actually dilute them – in other words, make them worse – makes this a terrible idea.
Answer 2 raises an interesting point. In effect, people are saying “I choose to cascade my messages in a way I know dilutes them and makes things worse. And it’s everyone else’s fault but mine”.




When people cascade 
your
 messages, it’s 
your
 responsibility to help
I recently watched a TV programme where British Airways asked celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal to improve their in-flight food. He found that BA cooked food on land (where he said it tasted great), then transported it to the airplane, where the in-flight crew heated and served it (where he said it wasn’t as nice).
He then said something I really liked: a chef’s responsibility ends when the food arrives on the customer’s table, not when it leaves the kitchen.
It’s the same with cascading: it’s 
your responsibility
 that your teams hear the right message to cascade. 
Your responsibility
 can’t end when you create the cascade pack, add a covering email and press “send”.
This means it’s 
your responsibility
 to:
Communicate your messages to them, in the same way you want them to cascade the messages onwards. So, you’re going to have to make your communication interesting, probably verbal, face to face if possible, interactive, personalized to them, and so on. If you don’t, but expect them to, it’s like a parent with a mouth full of food telling their child “don’t speak with food in your mouth”.
Give them very clear, very few messages that are easy to cascade. If you don’t, it’s too hard for them to do it well.
Ensure they have the necessary skills, motivation and confidence to cascade. For example, you could train them, ask how you can help make it easy, suggest they read the next chapter “
When you want to stop diluting other people’s messages
”.
Set clear expectations about cascading. For instance, I imagine you don’t want them to forward your messages “FYI” (but I bet some do).
Ask for – and be open to – their feedback about cascades and how to improve them.
Ask for – and be open to – their teams’ feedback on how it feels to receive these cascaded messages.
Vary your communications: sometimes PowerPoint, sometimes a document or conference call; change the agenda; when appropriate, skip a hierarchy level and communicate directly with everyone (this also helps your team see how you want it done).
You’ll notice I used the words “
your responsibility
” a lot. That’s because it is. A chef can’t delegate responsibility for the quality of his customer’s experience. And neither can you.















58
When you want to stop diluting other people’s messages




Cascading other people’s messages is hard. You might:
Have been given poor material.
Have no time.
Not agree with the message.
Feel uncomfortable delivering it.
Think it’s not your job.
Just not want to.
Feel annoyed with your team that day, so don’t want to talk to them about anything.
Think the message is boring, pointless or “corporate drivel”.
Find it hard to 
passionately
 deliver someone else’s words (I know I do).
Think “there are just too many of these cascades”.
Expect these so-called “critical” messages to be superseded by Something More Important in the next few days.
Feel unsupported by the owner.
And so on . . .
I guess the length of this list shows I work on these things a lot. And that people have plenty of reasons to hate them!
If you recognize any of these, it’ll be hard for you to cascade effectively, even if you want to. And, if you don’t want to, that’s a different book!
The previous chapter explained how it’s the owner’s responsibility to do all they can to help you cascade (maybe suggest your boss reads it?)
But it’s also 
your
 responsibility to do all 
you
 can to enhance the message. After all, if you add nothing, there’s no point in it coming through you. The owner might as well have gone directly to your team.
When Cascading, Be a Colour Car Wash
Imagine a dull gray car going into a car wash, which uses paint instead of water. So, the car goes in boring, but comes out fascinating and multi-coloured.
When you’re cascading, you’re the Colour Car Wash. You get the gray raw material – the owner’s messages – and turn it into something fascinating and multi-coloured for your team. The rest of this chapter will help you do this, by showing:
1.
 How to be a Colour Car Wash.
2.
 What to do when you can’t.
How to Be a Colour Car Wash
The foundations of successful cascading are the same as for any communication, as I described in chapter 1:




But, when you’re cascading, it’s also important to add your own slant to enhance the message. This makes your communication personal – it becomes 
“yours”
 in some way. This helps you bring passion and energy.
Four effective ways to personalize messages, along with examples I’ve seen work well are:




All four help you add colour.
And all are miles better than “FYI”.
How to Cascade, When You 
Can’t
 Add Colour
As you saw earlier, there are lots of reasons why you might feel you can’t add colour – nervousness about presenting (the next chapter advises about this), poor material, no time and so on. When this happens, you’ve only got three options:
Don’t cascade it at all. Don’t tell anyone you haven’t. Just avoid it in every way.
Cascade it half-heartedly/badly.
Ask the owner for guidance.
You can tell that I think the last is best. After all, cascading is not 100% your responsibility and 0% the owners’. So, wherever possible, go to them and set the scene, sound keen and come clean:













59
When you want to stop hating presentations
Most people don’t enjoy making presentations.
And, even if they do, they certainly don’t enjoy most of the ones they have to see others deliver.
Sound like you? If so, it’s important you stop hating giving them since, when you look uncomfortable, your audience suspects you lack confidence in what you’re saying. This may make them doubt your competence and credibility . . . and all because of something as petty as not having eye-contact with them.
So, here are some simple ways to stop hating them.
1.  Ensure Your Content Is Interesting
When you 
know
 your content will interest/help your audience, it’s a real confidence-booster.
So, include content they want to hear – for instance, how your topic will help address their aims, hopes, concerns and so on. This will probably mean changing your content from what you’d planned, but it’s well worth it.
2.  Ensure Your Delivery Is Interesting
Include at least 1–2 audience-friendly elements – interaction, stories, quizzes, humour, and the like. So, for example, rather than presenting “Here are my top 10 ideas for how we should improve”, this would be much more popular:
1.
 Explain quickly why your team needs to improve.
2.
 Ask them to pair-off and identify a couple of ideas that would help.
3.
 Facilitate a chat about everyone’s ideas.
4.
 Add 1–2 of your own.
5.
 Ask everyone to choose an action.
6.
 Ask everyone to share their action with the group.
None of these would take very long, but would trigger more buy-in, positivity and – most importantly – 
action
. And, of course, it’s much more likely to work than simply doing the traditional read-through of wordy slides.
It also helps keep it interesting for you. And it’s less daunting because you don’t have to talk as much.
3.  Remember Your Credentials
You’re presenting for a reason – for example, your expertise on a topic, your reputation, the impact you can have on your audience, people want to know what’s going on in your world etc.
So, focus on why you’ve a right to be there, not reasons why they’ll doubt you.
When you think about it, no audience want to sit through a boring presentation. It’s boring for them! So, they’re on your side. They 
want
 you to be good.
4.  Keep It Short
Review your content and, for each bit, ask “Keep/Bin/Appendix?”
Keep – if it’s critical, keep it in.
Bin – if it’s not needed, put it in the bin.
Appendix – if it’s useful background information, move to an Appendix.
I showed this approach to one of my customers. She used it on a 30-slide presentation, keeping 12, binning 9 and moving 9 to an Appendix. In other words, she removed the worst 60% of her presentation 
in only five minutes
.
She felt much more confident and delivered a great presentation.
This is a very useful, streetwise, 
quick
 way of improving how you present.
5.  Expect Good Things to Happen, and They Will
With presentations, as with anything, you often get what you expect.
So, if your overriding thought is “I’m dreading this. I hope I survive unscathed”, the best you’ll achieve is to survive unscathed.
But, if you think “I’m looking forward to sharing my ideas with them”, it’s much more likely to go well.
6.  Practice. a Lot
If an actress doesn’t know her lines, she won’t be able to concentrate on her performance. Instead of focusing on the scene and other actors, she’ll be thinking “what’s next?”
It’s the same with presenting. Unless you’ve practiced enough, you’re focusing too much on what you’re about to say, rather than giving the audience your undivided attention.
7.  Work Your Body
When you want to look confident (even if you’re not), these are the five parts of your body to focus on.






8.  But Don’t Be “Too Confident”
Although building confidence is important, some of the worst presentations I’ve seen were by people who “knew” they were brilliant – you know the type: the ones who give the impression you’re lucky to hear them.
There’s nothing wrong with you having butterflies . . . as long as they’re flying in formation.













60


When you want to avoid people instantly doubting your credibility


Have you heard this phrase?
“When I see crumbs on the in-flight table, I think the wings are about to fall off.”
In other words, if the airline can’t do something as basic as clean this airplane, I doubt they can do something as complex as fly it.
Similarly, with communication, the smallest crumb-like imperfections can cause big alarm bells to ring. For example:




It’s impossible to get everything right every time we communicate. But it’s inexcusable not to spend a few extra minutes cleaning up the crumbs. So, always ask yourself:
1.
 Am I speaking directly to the person I need to? (the next chapter will help ensure you are).
2.
 Is everything – the content, visuals and delivery – as impressive as possible?
3.
 What will my audience think are my crumbs? How can I remove them?
It’s important you do this. After all, for people to think you’re good, you must communicate “good”.















61


When you want to stop wasting your time with people who can’t make decisions




“My friend fancies you.”


The teenagers’ favourite chat-up line. And also one of the most useless. Because, as we all know, when you’re looking for love with that special someone, asking your friend to ask on your behalf rarely works:




Your “date” will wonder why you aren’t asking.


If you’re not there, you can’t react to what he says.


Chinese Whispers means messages might be misinterpreted.


Your chances of success depend on his relationship with your friend.




Let’s face it: involve a middle-man and your chances plummet.


It’s the same at work. When you want to influence projects, you must speak with the main decision maker directly, not indirectly through a middle-man. This involves three steps:




1.
 Find who they are.


2.
 Get in front of them; and


3.
 Say the right things to them.




Here’s how to do all three.






Step 1 – Finding the Decision Maker


Sometimes, it’s obvious who the Decision Maker is. If it isn’t, you’ll have to ask such questions as:




Who’s the ultimate Decision Maker?


Whose project is this?


Who’s responsible for ensuring that this is a success?


Who’s the key budget holder?


What’s the approval process?


Who else do we have to consult with, to get sign-off?




Then, just as we discovered as teenagers, once we know who the Decision Maker is, we now go to them directly, not through someone else.






Step 2 – Getting in Front of Them


Accessing Decision Makers can be easy. For example, if you know her, just call her.


When you 
don’t
 know her, but feel you can approach her (or her PA) directly, say something like:








“Hi, my name’s X, and I’m working on PROJECT X.






“I want to help ensure it goes really well, so I’ll need to know your objectives and priorities. When would be good for you, for us to chat it through?”








This all sounds great, but what if you’re currently talking to a middle-man?, If so, going straight to the Decision Maker could annoy the middle-man (“why are you side-lining me?”) and/or the Decision Maker (“why have you contacted me? The middle-man’s dealing with it”).


In this situation, it’s often best to work 
with
 the middle-man, not 
around
 them. This time, make sure you stress the benefits 
to the middle-man
 of you seeing the Decision Maker. For example:








“I’m looking forward to working on this with you. To help me contribute in a way that reflects well on us both, I’ll need to speak with [DECISION MAKER] to understand her objectives and priorities.






How would you propose we make this happen? Would you prefer we set up a three-way meeting, or shall I contact her directly? I’m relaxed either way – what do you think?”








If the middle-man suggests you contact the Decision Maker directly, it’s now safe for you to use the previous script.


If they’d prefer the three-way: “
Great. How soon can you do this, so we can get started
?”


Sometimes, despite everything, you just 
can’t
 get in front of the Decision Maker. When this happens, decide whether you still want to be involved (I’d almost always choose not to be, but you might want/need to). And, if you 
do
 carry on, do all you can to find what the Decision Maker’s most interested in, and make sure you all achieve it.




Step 3 – Saying the Right Thing to Decision Makers
Now you’re in front of them:
Find their objectives and priorities. Knowing this ensures you focus on the right things.
Agree how you’ll feedback what you’ve achieved. This ensures they know it’s been a success plus you enhance your reputation because you helped make it happen.
The best questions are the ones you’d expect. To find their objectives:
What are your objectives?
What outputs are you looking for?
How will you know it’s worked?
To find their priorities:
What are your priorities?
If we only achieve one thing, what must it be?
If we did nothing, what would be your biggest concern?
To agree about feedback:
How do you want me to feedback our successes?
Who else do I need to update?
How shall we debrief at the end?
These conversations work best when 
they
 do most of the talking (you’re unlikely to learn much if you do). As the old saying goes:
“You have two ears and one mouth. Use them in that proportion.”
The three steps in this chapter are simple to understand, pretty easy to do and produce great results for you. Imagine if you’d known this as a teenager.















62


When you want to prevent avoidable disasters


The 
Titanic
 sank about 100 years ago.
Imagine you’d been working for the shipping company White Star Line then, and were making your final preparations for the maiden voyage. All that excitement, pride and focus.
Sadly, in all the excitement about the positives, they didn’t prioritize the negatives. After all, if the voyage had been a success, nobody would have celebrated there being lots of lifeboats.
Communication can be like this. When working on projects, strategies and initiatives, in all the excitement, people often forget to ask Lifeboat Questions, such as:
Why won’t this project be a success? 
How should we communicate
, to ensure that it is?
Which people will make or break this initiative? 
How should we communicate
, to ensure they 
make
 it?
Who might rebel against this strategy? 
How should we communicate
, to pre-empt and remove their concerns?
Which people are most worried about the outcome of this project? 
How should we communicate
 to reassure them, rather than wait until they start panicking?
When companies ask me to create communications to help initiatives succeed, my first questions always establish their desired outcome – 
What do you want to achieve? How will you know you’ve done so?
 And so on. People are usually pretty clear on their answers to these.
But my second questions always seek to establish what might go wrong – the Lifeboat Questions. This time, in response they usually say, “Good question. I haven’t thought about that”.
But it’s 
critical
. For instance, my asking these questions unearthed such informa­tion as:
The Board member who realized her presentation about the year’s new initiatives would have disengaged her already-overworked team.
The company who realized that their new venture’s success/failure depended on how assiduously their managers changed their habits and followed up. But their planning hadn’t even considered these managers.
The multinational company that realized the launch of its new service was going to antagonize virtually their entire salesforce, so much so that they wouldn’t want to sell it.
Once you’ve identified potential problems, proactively eliminate them.
The weird thing with this is that, when things subsequently run smoothly, nobody celebrates the fact you averted disaster. It never even became an issue.
But, on balance, I’ve found that most people prefer to have enough Lifeboats.















63


When you want to stop saying irrelevant stuff




During the past few years, many people have tried to sell me things that I don’t want:




Cars – I can’t drive.


Bad debt insurance – our customers pay in advance.


3D glasses – I’m blind in one eye.


Haircuts – I’m bald.




They all had persuasive messages. For somebody else. But the right message to the wrong person is the wrong message:




A company I know well has worked with some of the world’s leading brands for many years.


They recently pitched to help deliver a global, one-off, three-day event. Their key message was their uncanny ability to build long-lasting relationships.


They lost the pitch.


The reason? The customer said “our event only lasts three days. Your 
long-term
 relationships are irrelevant”.


Ouch.








Your Best Option: 
Ask


As I’ve mentioned elsewhere, the best way to tailor messages is – wherever possible – to ask people what they want you to talk about. This sounds obvious, but happens too rarely. How many times have you sat in Planning Meetings, debating “Should we cover topic X or Y?”, “Should we prepare material to leave behind? If so, what should we put in it?”


It’s interesting they’re called Planning Meetings. I think a better name is Guessing Meetings. So, instead of guessing – and probably being irrelevant – wherever possible, 
ask
.




I have a teenage daughter, Megan. Consequently, I recently saw an interview with Zac Efron (apparently he used to star in something called 
High School Musical
).


During the interview, the flirty interviewer asked “Zac, if you were to take me on a date, where would we go?” An interesting question to ask a millionaire movie star. He could’ve said 
anything
 – charter a private jet and fly wherever she wanted to go, invite her to the Oscars, get her the best seats at a sporting event . . . 


But, he suggested none of these. Instead, he said:


“I don’t know. What do you like doing?”


“Dining out.”


“Well, in that case, I’d take you to your favourite restaurant.”




Very nicely done. One simple question, and he was able to suggest exactly what she wanted.




Another Great Option: Jolt
Sometimes, of course, questioning isn’t possible and/or doesn’t work. Maybe you’ve never met the person; or they’re too busy to see you. In this case, as well as doing your usual research, your best bet might be to JOLT them, where you use all the information you have about them to work out:
J
udged – How are they measured?
O
bjectives – What are their personal goals?
L
ike doing – What are their hobbies?
T
ime – Are they short of time?
Once you know you’re talking to a target-driven, competitive, time-poor, golf-obsessed salesman, it’s much easier to tailor your messages accordingly. And, of course, if you can find areas of common interest, that’s great for rapport building.
So, JOLT helps you tailor messages quickly. It sounds perfect, yes? Well, no. I’ve had one piece of negative feedback about it: it sounds so easy, that people think it’s obvious. So they imagine – often wrongly – they can do it.
So, here’s a quick exercise: JOLT three people you should know well:




If you completed all the boxes quickly and accurately, then JOLT is something you’re naturally good at. If not, I guess you realized:
It wasn’t as easy as you imagined.
The 
O
 and the 
L
 are hardest (they’re more personal, so involve knowing someone well).
It’s really important: you 
should
 know this stuff (when you next get to speak with them, 
ask
).
Asking and JOLTing help you be more relevant and, therefore, persuasive. You might not succeed as quickly as Zac Efron did. But, you’ve a much greater chance of doing so if you find out what people are most interested in, then talk about that.















64


When you want to break the pattern of hearing useful ideas, but doing nothing with them




How frustrating is 
this
?




You hear some great advice – maybe during a workshop, conference or meeting.


You think “I’m definitely going to do that from now on”.


You get back to your desk and forgot to do it.




Or maybe you do change for a while, but then drift back to your old ways?


I guess you’ve done this before? 
Everyone
 has.


And it’s a real problem. It stifles your progress. It can be frustrating. And it’s extremely expensive, both for you (lost time and opportunities) and your business (who gets zero return on its expensive investment).


But imagine if you 
did
 embed great ideas every time you heard them. That could potentially be life-changing.


This chapter will help you do this. But it – like you – isn’t helped by the Forcefield of Death: an invisible forcefield lurking in the doorway of every room where you hear useful advice.


This forcefield only kills one thing – your good intentions.


Even worse, it strikes in 
seconds
 – literally as you leave the room. You know what I mean here, I’m sure:




You discover a new idea and think “This is going to change my life in so many ways”.


Then, just as you go through the Forcefield, the phone rings and you have something to deal with 
right now
.


Then, another issue needs your attention.


Then you have to answer all the emails you received while you were learning new things.


And at last, when you finally get time to apply the new advice . . . well, it doesn’t seem quite so urgent now, does it?




The Forcefield will always try and get you – urgent things will always interfere with what you were planning to change. You can’t help that. But you 
can
 help embed the great advice you hear, by:




Giving yourself 
detailed
 actions which are easy to act on immediately. For example, “I must get more people to recommend me” isn’t easy to apply. Whereas this is: “I must look through my list of contacts today, identify the three who like me best, call them, and use today’s script to ask them to recommend me”.


Diarizing these detailed actions 
before
 you go through the Forcefield of Death – 
before
 you leave the room. If you don’t, you’ll have to remember to do it (you might well not) and/or fit it round your diary (that’s just not going to happen).


Identifying how you’ll keep remembering to be “the new you” – weekly diary reminders, ask a colleague for support, ask your manager to include it in your appraisals, and so on.


Pre-empt problems you’ll have in embedding it, and work out 
now
 how to overcome them.




All these take a few minutes; and you’ll need to do them 
before
 you get to the door, since that’s where the Forcefield of Death is lurking, ready to pounce.


Remember:




1.
 Good intentions alone just aren’t enough. It’s impossible to do something if it doesn’t pop into your head at the exact time it matters.


2.
 When others are learning from 
you
 (say, you’re delivering a workshop or conference session), help them get past their Forcefield by asking them to do some of the ideas you just read: detailed actions, diary entries, and so on. Remember, your job isn’t to 
teach
 stuff, it’s to 
cause
 stuff.






A Final Thought
This chapter contains some good tips that will help you. You know it will make a difference. You might even want to do something about it right now.
So your intentions are good.
The problem will be when you go through the door of the room you’re in now. So, beat the Forcefield by doing something 
now
. You know what might happen if you don’t . . . 













Conclusion: Build your momentum


To Keep Your Snowball Rolling, Just Turn Right


We recently had a new shower installed at home. It’s pretty similar to the old one, but the controls are now on the wall, not by the bath faucets. This means that, when I get into the bath, I have to turn right to switch the shower on, not left.


But for some reason, I just cannot remember to do this. I’m so in the habit of turn­ing left that, every morning, I turn left. I immediately realize (yet again) the controls aren’t there, then turn right.


I’m not sure why I keep forgetting. Maybe my brain’s not woken up yet; maybe my poor eyesight means I don’t see the controls, I don’t know.


But I do know I’ll crack it one day, because there are only so many times I can keep doing what I’ve always done (and keep getting instant feedback that it’s now pointless) before my brain recalibrates.


And that’s the potential challenge with this book . . . 


You see, I’ve written it so it’s as easy as possible for you to apply instantly. If you like, you “only” have to turn right to switch your shower on. The problem is, of course, that your brain is hardwired to turn left. You’ve been doing it for years.


As Andres Ericsson of Florida State University found from studying violinists and pianists, it takes 10,000 hours of purposeful practice to become an expert at something. And, you’ve already spent longer than this communicating in the way you do now. So, you’re an expert at that approach, even if it’s not the best way to do it.


Therefore, even if you’re quicker on the uptake than me and turn right immediately (and I truly hope you are!), will you still be doing so next week? Next month? Next year?


One of the advantages I have with my shower is that it’s impossible for me to keep doing the same thing. After all, there are no shower controls when I turn left. I have to change direction. But it isn’t like that for you:


Your next email could be good or bad.


Your next presentation could be interesting and drive action, or a boring information swap.


Your next Update Meeting could be a 10-minute “next steps” pit-stop or an hour-long series of tedious monologues.


So, here’s my final advice to you: help yourself embed the techniques you’ve liked best. To help you, use an “external force” – don’t just rely on your brain to remember – like:


Subscribe to my weekly tips to reinforce this book’s key messages – at 
www.andybounds.com/tips.


Create regular reminders – in your diary, a new screensaver, a note by your desk, a new autosignature that says “What are the next steps?”, and so on.


Seek peer support – tell your colleagues/boss what you’re looking to change and ask them to tell you when you forget.


Hire a coach.


Tell your manager you want to discuss improving your communication in your formal development targets.


Use the templates in the Appendix.


Anything that helps you remember when it matters.


One final thought: people sometimes tell me they feel intimidated by the size of the task. They say things like “but this might take six months to change”.


But, as I say to them:


You’re not saving time by not doing it. In six months’ time, you’re going to be six months older anyway. All that will happen by not doing it is that you’ll become even more of an expert at your current style – the one you want to change. So, become better, not just older.


Just choose 1–2 techniques and start with them. When they feel comfortable, move onto the next.


I cannot believe I keep forgetting to turn right with my shower. Just as you won’t believe how you forget some of this book’s techniques that you thought you’d always use.


But, imagine if you could embed them, such that every communication from now on was more impressive. Think of the time you’d save; all those “yeses” you’d get; the more fun you’d have; the less negatives you’d experience.


I’ve seen these techniques change the way thousands of people communicate, and the amazing benefits it’s brought them.


Embedding them will help you build such a Momentum Snowball that you’ll become unstoppable.


I know you can do this, and I wish you every success as you do.


Andy Bounds, January 2013











Appendix: Useful communication templates


Template To Help You Prepare All Communications






Template To Help You Prepare Better Presentations




To help you remember
Create a blank presentation template with the above words on to remind you.


Template To Help You Prepare Better Emails




The 3rd step is to write your interesting, short content.
To help you remember
Change your autosignature to:






Template To Help You Prepare Better Conference Calls And Meetings
As your first step, write the meeting’s purpose on the agenda, and have a standard last agenda item that ensures the meeting triggers 
action
:




2nd, create an engaging title. Use it in your invitation to motivate people to attend.
3rd, create an interesting, short agenda.
To help you remember
Change your standard agenda template to include the “purpose box” and “next steps”.




Template To Help You Prepare Better for Your Conversations


As you’d expect, identify the DO first; then, the AFTER; then, your interesting, short content.


This is harder to embed because you don’t have standard documents/templates for conversations. So . . . 




To help you remember


Do some/all of:




Weekly diary reminders – “Still doing 231?”


Asking colleagues to pick you up if you forget.


Adding “improve my communications” to your goals for the year.


And so on.




Or – and this is more painful but pretty effective – when a communication hasn’t worked, work out what was missing, and remember it next time.






Template To Help You Prepare Better Documents
Firstly, identify what you want the recipient to do with the document. Then, write it in a prominent place. For example, when appropriate:




2nd, an engaging title.
3rd, interesting, short content.
To help you remember
Either add an “Action required box” to your standard template; and/or create a checklist to follow, something like:















And for more help . . .




Does your company communicate well?


Does your team?


Do you?


Andy Bounds helps people achieve more every time they speak. He delivers this through some/all of the following:




Consulting on communication projects, to ensure they work.


Delivering conference keynotes, to improve the communication abilities of large groups.


Upskilling and empowering leadership teams, to deliver improved communications and results.


Helping sales teams sell more.


Creating important communications that have to land in the right way.


Developing communication guidelines that give people the skills, motivation and confidence to do things right, every time.




To discuss how Andy can help you communicate better, contact him on 
andy@andybounds.com


To sign up for his weekly communications tips, go to 
www.andybounds.com/tips


Andy’s first book, international bestseller 
The Jelly Effect
, is available at all major online and retail book stores.













Acknowledgments




I always used to wonder why books contained Acknowledgments sections. Surely, the author just wrote the book. I mean, how hard could it be?


The truth is, of course, very different. This book’s been a real team effort, and I’m extremely grateful to everyone who helped make it happen.


The first person I want to thank is my editor, boss and – when she’s not performing these two roles – wife, Em. All authors thank their better half; but Em’s outdone herself. This year, while she’s been supporting me writing this book, we’ve had builders working at our house for five months; been working flat-out on the business during our busiest ever year . . . and, throughout all this, she was pregnant with Tom.


Em, I don’t know how you do it. I am – as ever – in awe of, extremely proud of, and very grateful to you. I just think you’re great. And that’s it.


Thanks also to the other Emma in my life: my wonderful PA. She’s pretty much typed the whole book (ably helped by Vicky Etchells – thanks also to you, Vic). Emma has worked late at night and over weekends typing my originals, retyping my edits, further edits, yet more edits . . . Em: great work, great support, great patience!


The publishers Capstone have excelled themselves again, just as they did with my previous book 
The Jelly Effect
. Thanks to Jenny, Tess, Megan, Holly, Iain: you and your colleagues have done a great job.


And finally, of course, thanks to my wonderful children . . . 


Meg, you do your best to keep me trendy and hip. And I think we’d both agree it’s working pretty well; especially when you play those top tracks from the Hit Parade. They sure have a great beat, don’t they?


Jack, the worst moment in my life was when I could no longer beat you at any sport whatsoever. Sadly, this happened when you were about three.


Maia, thanks for teaching me Helly Pelly. I’ll win one day . . . after we’ve finished colouring in our 125th picture of the morning.


And to our beautiful baby Tom: welcome to our family. We all love you so much. Thanks for waiting until the builders had finished before you popped out. Now, will you please go to sleep.













About Andy Bounds




Andy Bounds helps companies communicate better.


Credited by his customers with helping them generate £billions of value, Andy has helped people all over the world to achieve more every time they speak.


His book 
The Jelly Effect
 is an international bestseller. His successes led to him being awarded the title Britain’s Sales Trainer of the Year.


To receive his Tuesday Tips – weekly hints and tips showing how to communicate better – visit 
www.andybounds.com/tips

















Index




ABCDE approach


acronyms


“Action required”


advice, giving free


AFTERs


benefits-based communication


cascading of messages


documents


focus on how you cause


making sales


RAMP acronym


sales communications


231 approach


agendas


aligning your agenda to everyone else’s


introductions


preparing for meetings


agreement, securing quick


aligning your agenda


analogies


annual reviews


appendices


Apple


asking questions 
see
 questions


attention, grabbing


audiences


presentations


Q&A sessions


senior


awards


background information, minimal


the Beatles


benefits-based communication


4Ws approach


getting an enthusiastic “yes”


titles


see also
 BO technique


Bird, Drayton


Blumenthal, Heston


BO (Benefit-Options) technique


conflict resolution


getting an enthusiastic “yes”


making sales


“word pictures”


body language


boredom


brevity


see also
 short communication


British Airways


business cards


buy-in


analogies


delegation


4Ws approach


introductions


presentations


“bye-hi” technique


Calls to Action


Campbell, David


cascading of messages


case studies


certainty


giving customers a sense of


transmitted through eye contact


challenging conversations


good outcomes from


initiating


change


long-term


requests for


chin, angle of


coaching


Colour Car Wash


communication channels, choice of


“compare and contrast” slides


concentration


concerns, dealing with


conference calls


cascaded messages


choice of communication channel


ineffective


lack of visual cues


preparation


template for better


titles


231 approach


see also
 meetings


confidence


conflict resolution


connections, finding unique


contacts


content


cascading of messages


documents


meetings


presentations


231 approach


contents pages


conversations


good outcomes from challenging


having the right


initiating challenging


networking events


template for better


water-cooler


see also
 one-to-one meetings


convincing customers


Covey, Dr Stephen


credentials


credibility, doubts about your


“crumbs” metaphor


customers


knowing what they want


making sales to


proposals and sales presentations


CVs


deadlines


decision making


coming up with ideas


dealing with the decision maker


meetings


delegation


delivery


diaries


keeping in touch with contacts


non-urgent emails


priorities


putting ideas into action


reminders


disasters, preventing avoidable


discussion topics, in presentations


Disney


documents


“Action required”


cascaded messages


easy to read


errors in


sales proposals


saying “no” to requests for


template for better


DOs


cascading of messages


causing the DO


measuring communication success


starting with the DO


Duarte, Nancy


ECPC (Easy Peasy)


editing


Efron, Zac


electives


“Elevator Pitches”


emails


badly written


challenging conversations


choice of communication channel


content


emptying your inbox


follow-up


FYI


good or bad


preparation of


template for better


titles


231 approach


emotion


Ericsson, Andres


errors in documents


events, networking


exams, how to pass


executive summaries


expectations


experience, using to personalize messages


extra mile, going the


“extras”


eye contact


face-to-face discussions


features and benefits


feedback


cascaded messages


dealing with the decision maker


follow-up communications


instant


financial proof


first steps


five Ds


follow-up


challenging conversations


key messages


long-term communications


meetings


networking events


sales communications


foot position


Forcefield of Death


Ford, Henry


foundations


four Ps


4Ws


frustrations


Fuller, Neil


fun


the future


benefits-based communication


good outcomes from challenging conversations


see also
 AFTERs


Future-Based Questions (FBQs)


FYIs


cascading of messages


one-off communications


games and activities


getting things right first time


Golden Rules of Sales


“Good Grief” approach


grammatical mistakes


guiding customers


handouts


hands, movement of


head angle


headings, clear


see also
 sub-headings


humour


ideas


coming up with


doing something with


imperfections


inboxes, emptying


initials


initiatives, launching successful


interactivity


interest


interviews, how to get job


introductions


irrelevance of message, avoiding


James, Bev


job interviews, how to get


jobs


AFTERs-focus


describing your job


having fun at work


relationship building


Jobs, Steve


JOLT




Jurassic Park




Kennedy, John F.


key messages


ensuring people remember your


presentations


“word pictures”


KITE table


Lawson, Charlie


learning something new


legibility of writing


length of content


Lifeboat Questions


links between topics


LION meetings


lists of previous beneficiaries


long-term change


meetings


action generated from


attendance


better and quicker


choice of communication channel


dealing with the decision maker


follow-up communications


guidelines


ineffective


pit-stop


Planning


preparation for


purpose of


template for better


titles


update


see also
 conference calls


memorizing


initials


“word pictures”


mentors


message dilution


middle-men


minimum length of content


minimum number of meeting attendees


Monkhouse, Bob


motivation


negative questions


negatives, using


nervousness


networking


events


relationship building


next steps


conflict resolution


delegation


presentations


“Star Wars way”


“no”, saying


frequent hearing of “no”


in a way that doesn’t cause problems


missed opportunities


proving yourself to be the best option


removing someone’s reason for


stopping yourself from


Obama, Barack


objections, dealing with


objectives


decision makers


delegation


introductions


long-term change


sales communications


tailoring the message


observation


one-off communication


one-to-one (121) meetings


see also
 conversations


options, giving


making sales


sales communications


third options


see also
 BO technique


PALM


paragraphs


exams


sales communications


short


slides


template for better emails


past blockers


peer support


performance reviews


personalization of messages


persuasion


pit-stop meetings


Planning Meetings


plans


“Plumber Slides”


posture


PowerPoint


see also
 slides


practice


hours required to become expert


presentations


preparation


challenging conversations


exams


meetings


presentations


Q&A sessions


RAMP acronym


template for


presentations


asking questions


choice of communication channel


enjoying using PowerPoint


great visuals


ineffective


interesting


lack of Call to Action


observation sheet for


polished performances


preparation


Q&A sessions


sales


senior audiences


starting


stopping yourself from hating


template for better


terrible slides


prevention of avoidable disasters


previews


Price, Harrison


pricing options


prioritization of key points


Priority Place


problems


process, explaining your


proof points


proposals, sales


public relations (PR)


puzzles


question & answer (Q&A) sessions


questions


conference calls


conversations


to customers


Future-Based Questions


getting things right first time


Lifeboat Questions


negative


networking events


pre-communication


presentations


relationship building


“serve and volley” technique


tailoring the message


upfront communication for new initiatives


quotes, using


RAMP acronym


rapport, building


reading documents


references


relationships, building


relevance


reminders


asking more and talking less


long-term communications


Priority Place


putting ideas into action


speaking with contacts


repetition


responsibility for cascaded messages


results, focusing on


résumés


revising for exams


Robbins, Tony


round-table dialogue


Rowling, J.K.


sales


focus on the selling company


making


observation sheet for


proposals and sales presentations


standing out from the crowd


sayings, using


senior audiences


sentences


“serve and volley” technique


short communication


documents


meetings


presentations


sales communications


WITS acronym


slides


analogies


enjoying using PowerPoint


sales communications


sparse


template for better presentations


terrible


titles


see also
 PowerPoint


solutions, finding


speaking, order of


speaking to the wrong person


speed, problem with


spelling mistakes


standing out from the crowd


Star Wars


stories


cascading of messages


interesting


long-term change


networking events


presentations


standing out from the crowd


sub-headings


Super Six approaches


surveys


tailoring your message


teaching people something


teams, presenting in


testimonials


thinking outside the box


third options


time


“bye-hi” technique


Q&A sessions


saving


time limits for meetings


The 
Titanic


titles


choice of communication channel


combined with introductions


documents


meetings


presentations


sales communications


slides


Star Wars


template for better emails


To Do lists


two-way conversations


231 approach


uniqueness


update meetings


updates 1upfront communication


value, bringing


variety


video conferences


see also
 conference calls


visuals


documents


interesting


PowerPoint


see also
 slides


WAIT (Why Am I Talking?)


“Wallop-Down-Up-Please”


wants and needs


“weenies”


white space


“Why’s That Good Game”


WITS


“word pictures”


words, removing unimportant


workshops


“wow” moments


“yes”


getting people to say


persuading yourself to say





