





































Published by Jaico Publishing House

A-2 Jash Chambers, 7-A Sir Phirozshah Mehta Road

Fort, Mumbai - 400 001


Jaicopub@Jaicobooks.com


www.Jaicobooks.com


© 2016 Kevin Horsley


Published in arrangement with

  AT Real Estate Solutions LLC, DBA TCK Publishing

  16641 Brick Road, Granger, IN 46530, USA


To be sold only in India, Bangladesh, Bhutan,

  Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and the Maldives.


UNLIMITED MEMORY

 ISBN 978-93-91019-80-8


First Jaico Impression: 2022


No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in 
 any form or by any means, electronic or 
 mechanical including photocopying, recording or by any 

information storage and retrieval system, 

without permission in writing from the publishers.















Contents






Foreword


Introduction


Part I	Concentrate


Chapter 1 Excuse Me


Chapter 2 Never Believe a Lie


Chapter 3 Be Here Now


Part II	Create and Connect


Chapter 4 Bring Information to Life


Chapter 5 Use Your Car to Remember


Chapter 6 Use Your Body to Remember


Chapter 7 Pegging Information


Chapter 8 Spaces in Places


Chapter 9 Linking Thoughts


Chapter 10 Remembering Names


Chapter 11 Remembering Numbers


Chapter 12 Art in Memory


Chapter 13 Using the Methods


Part III	Continuous Use


Chapter 14 Self-discipline


Chapter 15 Review to Renew


Chapter 16 Endings Are the Seeds for Beginnings


Bibliography


About the Author

















Memory is a way of holding on to the things you love, the things you are, the things you never want to lose.
~The Wonder Years















Foreword


In 
Unlimited Memory
, Kevin lays 
the foundation for you to change your life forever. I say this with confidence because I have studied and implemented his methods in my own life. These principles have such transformative potential that I am honored to make a small contribution to this amazing body of work.


I wish I had known these methods while studying for my MD. I was an average student, and spent many hours battling my way through dense information. I made it, but it wasn’t easy, and I know now that I could have been much more efficient in my studying. 


The first time I encountered Kevin’s methods was while training to be a medical specialist. His principles completely changed the way I approached studying and how I managed information—my straight-A academic record is a testament to my dramatic change. I did not suddenly become a genius—I did not need to—I merely decided to use Kevin’s principles to transform my perceptions about my memory. With this newfound structure and purpose, I managed to discover a potential within myself that I never thought possible.


After realizing the impact of these principles in my academic work, I started applying them to my everyday life. The experience was about much more than just learning to manage information; it ultimately enhanced my self-confidence in all areas of my life. What a journey it has been!


I am privileged to know Kevin personally; I can see that the information in this book is evident in his life. This has been a great source of motivation for me!


After many years of research, experience, and achievement, Kevin has shared his life-changing methods in an easy-to-understand and practical way. When you decide to utilize these methods and make them your own, you will unleash unlimited potential to not only improve your memory, but your life as well.


~ Dr. Marius A. Welgemoed, MBChB, LMCC, FRCPC, FCPsych, MPhil 















Introduction


The great breakthrough in your life comes when 
you realize that you can learn anything you need to learn to accomplish any goal that you set for yourself. This means there are no limits on what  you can be, have, or do.
~Brian Tracy


What would your life be 
like if you could learn and remember information easily, quickly, and effectively? Think about it.


In this short, easy-to-read book, I will provide you with a set of powerful memory-enhancing skills that will allow you to take control of your learning and your life. You will discover many amazing methods, both ancient and modern, in the areas of accelerated learning and memory development. This book will give you information that school forgot to teach you. 


These systems require you to think differently than you’re used to. Many people want to improve their memory and concentration, but they continue to use outdated methods they already know, so they don’t get results. You have to 
do
 something different to 
become
 different.


Imagine you were born without a memory. Who would you be? You would be nothing; if you didn’t have a memory, you wouldn’t be able to function in our world. Your memory is the glue that binds your life together; everything you are today is because of your amazing memory. 


If I asked, “Who are you?” you would immediately start to rearrange memories in your mind to answer the question. You are a data-collecting being, and memory is where your life is lived. If you didn’t have a memory, you wouldn’t be able to learn, think, create, or even tie your shoes. You wouldn’t be able to build experience in any field—because experience is just a collection of memories! 
Only if you can remember information can you live it.


Over the years, “memory” has come to be associated negatively with rote memorization and cramming information into your brain. Educators say that understanding is the key to learning, but how can you understand something if you can’t remember it? 


Too often, we recognize and understand information when we hear it or read it, but can’t recall that information when we need it. For example, how many jokes do you know? You’ve probably heard thousands, but you can only recall about four or five right now. There is a big difference between remembering your four jokes and recognizing or understanding thousands. Understanding doesn’t create use: Only when you can instantly recall what you have understood, and practice using your remembered understanding, do you achieve mastery. 


Some people say you don’t need a good memory in the Google age. Yet Ken Jennings said, “When you make a decision, you need facts. If those facts are in your brain, they’re at your fingertips. If they’re all in Google somewhere, you may not make the right decision on the spur of the moment.”


This raises a question: Would you hire a person for his or her ability to Google information? No. You want people with information and experience at their fingertips. You want confident people that are certain about what they know. 


Not storing information in your mind is expensive and can lead to embarrassment and poor judgment. If you must continually refer to notes or manuals to do your work, you will waste time and look unprofessional. Would you allow a doctor to operate on you if she had to continually refer to a manual or an iPad? Definitely not! Memory means storing what you have learned so you can use it later; otherwise, why would we bother learning in the first place?


Memory is the cornerstone of your existence. It determines the quality of your decisions and, therefore, your entire life!


Learning and memory are the two most magical properties of the human mind. Learning is the ability to acquire new information, and memory holds that information in place over time. Memory is the foundation of all learning. The problem is that many people are not utilizing their memories to their full potential and so cannot recall information they have “learned”; they are constantly learning and forgetting, learning and forgetting, learning and forgetting … 


When you improve your memory, you improve everything. When you can access information more quickly and easily, you can create greater opportunities for connections and associations, and that makes it even easier to learn and remember new things in the future. An increased memory also enhances basic intelligence, because intelligence is based on all of the events, people, and facts that you can recall. The more you remember, the more you can do, because factual knowledge always precedes skill. Information can only be built onto more information, so the more you know, the easier it is to know more.


You have two choices: The first is to believe that your memory cannot be improved, that you can do nothing to change your inborn ability. Many people believe this because, despite years of schooling, not one hour was spent teaching them how their amazing memories could be made better. School never taught them how to harness the incredible power of their brains. The second choice is to believe that memory is just a habit, and like any other habit, it can be improved with training and practice.


When I was eight years old, a school psychologist said I might have a form of brain damage, and he wanted to send me to a special class. I was a classic dyslexic: I wasn’t born with a good memory, I couldn’t concentrate, and reading and writing were always challenging for me. Throughout my school career, I learned by having my mother and friends read to me. I forced myself to memorize the material; whatever I didn’t get—which was most of it—I just didn’t get. I had no future because I couldn’t grasp what was being taught to me. Even after 12 years of school, I couldn’t read much better than when I started out in first grade. To cut a long story short, I somehow managed to graduate from high school in 1989.


A couple of years later, my life changed as I walked through a local bookstore. Until that point, I had not read a book from cover to cover by myself, but that night I decided to buy three books, all written by Tony Buzan: 
Use Your Head, Use Your Memory
, and 
The Speed Reading Book
. I intended to begin with the speed reading book so I could read the other two quickly. 


Instead, I battled my way through 
Use Your Memory.
 I discovered that there are fundamentals of memory improvement and that if we apply them consistently, we will get the same results that great memory masters do.


I started studying psychology and anything else I could get my hands on in the areas of the brain, mind, and memory. I studied hundreds of books and tapes, and I interviewed people with great memories. Through this long journey, I overcame all of my dyslexic issues and took myself to a point where I was reading and taking in, on average, four books a week. I could learn in an hour what took the average person months to master.


In 1995, I decided to compete in the World Memory Championships. This competition, which tests every facet of memory, attracts the best memory masters from around the world. That year I placed fifth overall, and won second place in the written word event. This was proof that I had overcome my dyslexic challenges. 


I was also awarded the title of International Grandmaster of Memory by the Brain Trust, the official charity of the World Memory Sports Council. The title was presented and jointly sanctioned by His Serene Highness Prince Philip of Liechtenstein on October 26, 1995, at Hanbury Manor in Ware, Hertfordshire, England. Considering my past difficulties, this was a great achievement. From that day on, I knew my life would never be the same.


In 1999, I decided to test my abilities even further by memorizing the first 10 thousand digits of pi (π), a limitless mathematical constant that has passed every test of randomness. I wanted to attempt to break the world record for the “Everest of memory tests,” a test that divides the first 10 thousand digits of pi into two thousand five-digit groups. The testers would randomly call out any of these five-digit sequences, and I had to reply with the five-digit numbers on either side of the sequence chosen. This happened 50 times. I broke the previous record by 14 minutes. 


Why did I do it? Mainly because people said it was impossible, and that’s what my life is all about: breaking limitations and showing people what our memories are capable of.


Ever since then, I have been training people to remember key information and teaching that the joy of learning is available to us all. Many people say I have a photographic memory, but that is not true. I have just discovered many secrets about memory, and I have been able to use them and make them my own.


I don’t say this to impress you. Every person has the same potential to master his or her memory. It doesn’t matter where you come from; all that matters is where you are going. If you keep on doing what you have always done, however, you will get what you have always gotten. You need to 
do
 different to 
get
 different. Thus, a word of warning: 
Mastering your memory will require a different kind of thinking.


Don’t judge or look for perfection from this book; rather, look for value. When you judge information, you stop yourself from learning it. You can judge the methods, you can criticize them, you can try another approach, but I promise you—you will not be able to get the same results as a memory master without applying these principles. 


I ask you to read with an open mind; I have no doubt that the methods in this book can work amazingly well for anyone. The methods I will share with you are the same methods that memory masters use. 


This book is divided into three sections covering the four keys (or “Cs”) to improving your memory. The first section talks about improving your Concentration. The second section is about improving your ability to Create imagery and Connect concepts, and the final key is about creating a habit with Continuous use. The four Cs are the solution to any memory problem that you have or will face in the future. Some of the examples that I have used to demonstrate these concepts come from personal development and business books, so not only will you learn to improve your memory, you will also learn some key concepts that you can use for your personal development.


I will teach you to transform bland information into something that is real and well-organized. This, in turn, gives the information meaning so you will use it instead of discard it. This is not rote learning, but a different way to store information that produces far better results. The goal is to improve learning and understanding.


I want to show you the wonderful world of memory improvement in the way I wish someone had taught me. Don’t just read this book; play with the concepts and make it part of your thinking and your life. 


If you are ready, turn to the first lesson and unleash the power of your unlimited memory.















Chapter 1
Excuse Me


You cannot fly with the eagles
if you continue to scratch with the turkeys.
~Zig Ziglar


B
efore we begin, what excuses 
will you make for not reading this whole book?


If you decide to read the whole book, what excuses will you make for not using the information that you will learn? I know you don’t yet know what you will be learning, but you have those excuses all lined up, don’t you? Take time to really think about your excuses and write them down.


These are the same excuses that you always use to stop yourself from learning something new. You can have success or excuses, but you can’t have them both. People that learn quickly focus only on the information and skills that matter. Excuses don’t matter—they are “thought viruses.”


The only things that keep you from getting what you want are the excuses you make to yourself. Who would you be without your excuses? Think about it.


Every excuse you accept makes you weaker. Excuses stop you from concentrating and paying attention. When you excuse yourself from learning something new, you block your focus and your energy. Always remember that 
where your attention goes, your energy flows.


Some of the most common excuses that people use to give away their power are:


1. I Am Helpless




I’m not smart enough.


It’s not my nature.


I don’t have the time to practice the information. (Time is always there; you just need to schedule it.)


I don’t have the right genes to have a good memory. (How do you know that?)


I’m getting older; I can’t do anything about my memory. You can’t teach an old dog new tricks! (Then it’s a good thing you’re not a dog!)




If you continue to repeat negative thoughts like these, you will inevitably come to believe them. Just because you have been conditioned to think that something is true, does not mean it is an objective fact. Change is always possible.


2. Someone Else Is to Blame




My parents always said that I was stupid.


I need support to develop these skills.


It is the book’s fault; I need to experience it in a seminar.




It is impossible to have a negative emotion without blaming someone or something. Free your mind. You always have two choices with any experience in your life: You can either learn from it or you can place blame. The choice is always yours.


3. Too Much Stress




There is just too much to learn.


I have to change my thinking.


The book requires me to do too much.


It will be difficult.




Every time you use an excuse, it makes you weaker and stops you from paying attention to the information that could make a difference for you.


We excuse ourselves into living mediocre lives. We explain why we can’t do this or that; we excuse ourselves from taking responsibility. Decide now to stop using excuses to give away your power.


Are your excuses valid? Are you 100% certain that they are true? Do any of your excuses really enhance or empower your life? You are more than your excuses, aren’t you?


Drop them now!


Richard Bach said, “Argue for your limitations and sure enough, they’re yours.” The only cause for not doing something with the information in this book is you, and nobody else but you. You are responsible for your learning. The person that has the most to do with what happens to you is you! 
If you believe your limits, your life will be very limited.


Improving your memory and concentration is not only about what you need to do more of; it is also about what you need to do less of. It is amazing how quickly you can learn a new skill when you decide to let go of your excuses, judgments, and complaints. If you consistently change your approach and increase your desire to learn this information, you will master it.


Take Action Now!




If you continue to hold on to your excuses, what will your life be like five years from now?


Who would you be without your excuses? Enter all learning with this new mindset.


Remember they are just excuses. They are not the truth. 


What is more important to you: excusing yourself from experiencing your potential or being the best that you can be?


Why is it important that you learn to empower your memory? Think about this and write down as many reasons as you can to create a big WHY. As Darren Hardy said, “We need ‘why power’ not willpower.”

















Chapter 2
Never Believe a Lie


The mind is the limit.
As long as the mind can envision the fact that you can do something, you can do it—
as long as you believe 100 percent.
~ Arnold Schwarzenegger


There was once a fish 
that lived in a pond. One day, he met another fish that used to live in the sea. The pond fish asked, “What is the sea?” and the sea fish said, “It is a vast amount of water that is a million, million times bigger than your pond.” The pond fish never talked to the sea fish again because he thought the sea fish was a liar.


What can we learn from this?


Your beliefs about what your concentration and memory can do may be your own limited version of the truth. Many people never get a taste of their true potential because they have decided to entertain only a limited view of what they can do.


What if your negative beliefs about your concentration, your memory, and your potential were not true at all? Who would you be without these beliefs?


Richard Bandler said, “Beliefs aren’t about truth. Beliefs are about believing. They are guides for our behavior.”


We always defend what we believe. If you believe you have a bad memory, you will always act and think in accordance with that belief. Where your attention goes, your energy flows.


If you want to improve your memory and concentration, you need to create a belief system that supports them.


Imagine there is an Earth 1 and an Earth 2. The planets are the same in every way, but they are in different dimensions.


On Earth 1 lives Mr. A and on Earth 2 lives Mr. B.












They look the same, they speak the same way, they live in the same environment, they have the same education, and they even have the same brain and nervous system. Everything is the same. There is only one thing that separates them.


Mr. A believes that he has a terrible memory. He always tells people:


“My attention is all over the place; it is like a kangaroo hopping around my mind.”


“I always forget things.”


“I’m terrible with names.”


“My memory is getting worse every day.”


“My memory is full.”


“My mind is like a sieve.”


“I’m stupid.”


“Your brain will fill up—so don’t learn too much!”


He hates learning. He is not interested in remembering because he thinks he will forget.


Mr. B believes he has a wonderful memory; in fact, an exceptional memory. He always says:


“I choose to focus my attention; it is like a laser beam.”


“Memory improvement is important.”


“Look how much I remember: I have quadrillions of memories stored in my mind.”


“My memory is getting better and better every day.”


“I’m interested in remembering names.”


“I’m brilliant.”


“My memory has the ability to store and recall mountains of information. It is the only container with this characteristic: The more I put into it, the more it will hold.”


He loves learning. He wants to remember and train his mind.


Now, who do you think has the better memory? Of course: Mr. B.


The only difference between Mr. A and Mr. B is their beliefs. Whose beliefs do you think are right?


The answer is that they are both right. Only our thinking makes things right or wrong. Mr. A and Mr. B both have beliefs, and they both have experiences or thoughts to back them up. The only difference is that Mr. A’s focus is negative. He sets himself up to fail.


Mr. B’s focus is positive and empowering. He sets himself up for success.


Both Mr. A and Mr. B choose their beliefs. No outside influence determines those beliefs. We are all free to choose what we focus on. In the end, our choices will determine the beliefs we carry around with us.


A belief is a sense of being certain; what you believe, you become.


Negative beliefs and thoughts place a block on your concentration and memory. Unless you decide to change the thoughts that you constantly feed yourself, you will not be able to break through your negative conditioning. Every single thought we have is creative: Each one has the power to build and the power to destroy.


Most people don’t realize that when they use doubtful phrases, they are setting standards for themselves. These standards become expectations and eventually self-fulfilling prophecies.


Below is a diagram that shows what happens when you adopt a negative belief frame:












Your limiting beliefs will keep you trapped in a loop. Your mind will continue to prevent you from learning anything new. Your beliefs either move you or stop you. Every thought and every word works for you or against you, and every thought that you confirm to be true becomes a belief. When you change a belief, you change a mental construction and, therefore, your life. 


In other words, we believe what we have been taught to believe, and we don’t question beliefs because we don’t want to question the source. Begin to ask yourself, “Who will I come to doubt by changing my beliefs about my mind, concentration, and memory? Why do I think this belief is true?”


People tend to think that their beliefs are absolutely true—but in reality, these beliefs are true only for them. Just because you can’t do something well now doesn’t mean it’s impossible to improve. Identify your self-limiting beliefs and then ask, “What if they were not true?” Remember that the limits in your belief system will always stop you from seeing any alternatives that could otherwise be obvious.


How to Change Your Beliefs


If you choose to change your beliefs, here is how you can do it:


First, remember that 80% of changing anything is about 
why
 you want to change and only 20% is about 
how
 you do it. It is as simple as having a reason and deciding that you want to change your beliefs. Take responsibility.


Second, question the belief. There are some things that you previously believed with all your heart but now you don’t believe them. Why? Because you questioned them. If, long ago, some teacher told you that you have a memory like a sieve, it doesn’t mean you have to make the teacher’s words a reality. You were younger then, had less experience, and did not have the ability to question authority. Now you can question his or her judgment of your younger self. Ask yourself questions like, “How much is this belief going to cost me if I hold on to it? Do I have to hold on to it? Is it true? Can I be 100% certain that it is the truth?”


Third, create a new belief and think of experiences and evidence to confirm it. When you change your beliefs, you allow yourself to experience more of your potential and create new possibilities.


Fourth, use the new belief often and make it part of your identity.


Your beliefs are the stories about yourself that you have accepted to be true … so you can decide to change the stories.


Spenser Lord said, “Beliefs are not tattoos, they are just like clothes—you can put them on and take them off at will.”


Here are five core beliefs that you can “put on” right now:


1. I Was Born with Exceptional Concentration and Memory


You are already all you need to be. Maxwell Maltz said, “Do not tolerate for a minute the idea that you are prohibited from any achievement by the absence of inborn talent or ability. This is a lie of the grandest order, an excuse of the saddest kind.” You don’t need anything more than what you have. You don’t need a special talent or pill to have brilliant concentration or a great memory. All you need is a willingness to learn, a method, and self-discipline.


2. Memory Improvement Is Important


Successful people believe that what they do is important and worth doing. With this belief, people move from interest to commitment. 
Consider living without your memory for one week. You wouldn’t be able to do anything. 
Everything you do, say, and understand is due to memory. It is your most important mental function and if you improve it, you will improve your life.


3. I Have Incredible Abilities and My Memory Is Unlimited


Think about how much data you already have stored in your memory (numbers, stories, jokes, experiences, words, names, and places). Think about what an incredible memory you need just to have a conversation. You have to listen, create meaning from what you have just heard, and then search your memory for a response. 
Not even all the computers in existence connected to each other can perform such a feat.
 You will see your incredible ability once you have learned the memory methods.


4. There Is No Failure, Only Feedback


Catch your memory doing things right. One of the best ways to strengthen this belief is to ask yourself, “How does my memory serve me—how did it serve me today?” Generally, people only focus on where their memory went wrong; this makes it weaker. Focus on your strengths and change your approach when the feedback or result is not what you want.


5. I Don’t Know It All


Thinking you know everything there is to know about something will only hold you back, because it prevents you from learning anything new. Listen and become interested in other points of view and embrace change as well as new things. Allow information to come to you. Open all channels to receive information.


Decide now that you will only feed your mind with good. Adopt and try on as many empowering beliefs as you can. Use them and watch your life take on a new direction.


Take Action Now!




Identify your self-limiting beliefs.


Question these beliefs and ask yourself: “Is it that I 
can’t
 improve my concentration and memory or is it that I 
won’t
 make the time to do so?”


What else do you believe about your mind and your potential?


Memorize this quote by Jim Rohn: “If you don’t like how things are, change it! You’re not a tree.”

















Chapter 3
Be Here Now


Concentrate all your thoughts on the task at hand.
The sun’s rays do not burn until brought to a focus.
~Alexander Graham Bell


We are all gifted with 
the power to think about our thinking. You can focus your thinking to improve any area of your life; you are in control of what you choose to attend to. You can continue to allow your attention to be pulled by your environment, or you can decide how to direct it.


Many people believe super concentration is a magical power with which only a lucky few are born. But are big, muscular biceps something you are born with? No, of course not; we all know it takes many hours of training to develop your arm muscles. Yet, people look at attention as something they either have or don’t have. Concentration, like anything in life, takes practice.


Concentration is made up of many small choices practiced consistently. The people that limit their attention are still using the your-brain-can’t-change model. Yet research tells us that the brain changes when we learn something new. We know that concentration can and should be improved. You already have everything you need to control your distracted mind and take your power back.


Here is the average person’s daily attention training: They wake up in the morning, usually to some loud song or blaring alarm. They check their cell phone for any messages, just to see if anyone missed them. Then they jump out of bed into the shower and there they think about the 110 things that they have to do that day. Unfortunately, they haven’t allowed themselves enough time to get ready and can only manage a small, unhealthy breakfast, filling up instead with coffee. They get in their car, put on the radio, make phone calls, and maybe even try to text while driving. They get angry and worked up about the traffic, which won’t change, although they think it should. 


Most of us are like this. We worry and focus on a million things at once, which pulls our attention in different directions. We even focus on things we can’t change (like traffic) which only makes us unhappy and wastes our mental power.


Imagine your attention was an Olympic athlete. Would it be able to compete? The reason your attention isn’t great is because you haven’t trained it. You keep switching through the channels of your mind and never stop long enough to really focus on one. 


Most of us pay half-hearted attention to almost everything we do. We live in an activity illusion and think that “busyness” is equal to good business, but it’s often just procrastination in disguise. Busyness may make you feel good and make you think you are productive, but if you look back at the end of the day, you’ll realize you haven’t done anything worthwhile. We’ve trained our minds to have continuous partial, fragmented attention.


Training your concentration isn’t that hard. You just have to learn to become more peaceful and find the moment. You have to learn to be here, now. When you are at work, be at work. When you are at home, be at home. “Learn to be silent. Let your quiet mind listen and absorb,” said Pythagoras.


We fill our minds with all kinds of conflict, which takes us away from the moment. Have you ever had a fight with someone at home, then spent the whole work day trying to concentrate? 
Conflict pulls your mind in many directions; it is the opposite of concentration.


When your mind is at peace, you can enjoy the moment and your mind becomes like a laser beam. 
Peace and concentration are the same thing.


To eliminate conflict and create peace in your mind you must do four things:


1. Take Control of Your Inner Voice


Do you have an inner voice that talks to you? We all do. Your inner voice is the center of your focus; it helps explain and make sense of your world. The only problem is that if you’ve done something wrong it often sows self-hatred and conflict. 


But you don’t have to agree with your inner voice. It’s just a thought—it’s not set in stone. Remember: If you give yourself bad commands, bad things will happen.


So change the thought. 
Start to catch yourself doing more things right.


How or where did you concentrate well today? In what area of your life do you need to stop beating yourself up?


2. Stop Multitasking


We destroy both peace and concentration by multitasking. Multitasking is a myth!


A lioness hunting in the wild focuses on one wildebeest. She never focuses on two—because she knows the odds of missing both are high. She is single-minded and does everything in her power to achieve her goal. 


In the circus, a lion trainer will often hold a chair in front of his face. This confuses the lion and controls its behavior by dividing its attention. It forces the lion to focus on four chair legs instead of the human behind the chair, and it goes into a type of trance. 


We humans are the same. It is impossible to focus on more than one thing at once. When you multitask, you actually switch between tasks, semi-attending to each one. It’s not very effective. We cannot do more than one thing well at a time. It’s one of the most damaging myths out there.


We are training our brains to have an attention deficit. Many people simply can no longer focus for an extended period of time. I have heard that the average person looks at their cell phone about 110 times a day. We read emails, the news, Facebook, Twitter, etc., during what should be family and relationship time. 


People even drive while talking on the phone. Driving with a cell phone makes you hit the brakes 0.5 seconds slower. If you are traveling at 70 miles per hour (113 kilometers per hour), in 0.5 seconds you’ll travel 50 feet (15 meters) farther before you brake.  A lot can happen in that distance. If you are distracted while driving, you are nine times more likely to get in an accident. When your phone rings, remember that you don’t have to pick it up; that’s why voice mail was invented!


Neuroscience consultant Marilee Springer says, “Multitasking is known to slow people down by 50% and add 50% more mistakes.” Multitasking is like putting your brain on drugs. There is a whole body of research that shows that multitasking makes you less productive, less creative, and more likely to make bad decisions.


We no longer allow ourselves to simply sit and enjoy the moment. Blaise Pascal said, “All man’s miseries derive from not being able to sit quietly in a room alone.” When we get in the car, we have to put the radio on. When we arrive home we have to put the TV on. When we watch TV, we flip through the channels. We even lack enough attention to watch the commercials. We constantly fill our minds with conflict and allow our attention to be pulled in different directions. Most people are unable to concentrate  because they’re in the habit of filling their attention with constant distractions.


Stop overwhelming yourself by continually changing the channels of your mind. Sharpen your intellect by making it a habit to do one thing at a time. Rediscover the value of consecutive tasking, instead of settling for the diluted quality that comes from simultaneous tasking. Exceptional work is always associated with periods of deep concentration. Nothing excellent ever comes from a scattered effort. When you are “all there,” your brain power and resources will be all there, too.


3. Know What You Want 


When people approach information they rarely know what they want out of it. They don’t direct their minds. Learn to engage and be present with information by creating a strong 
PIC:


Purpose:
 A clear purpose is important because clarity dissolves resistance. Always remember why you are reading or learning the information. Keep your purpose at the forefront of your mind. If you don’t know what you want, how are you going to know when you get it? Learning with a purpose increases your attention, comprehension, and retention; it also helps organize your thoughts. 


The more specific your purpose, the more information you will get. A vague purpose would be: I want to learn more about memory from this book. A specific purpose would be: I want to learn concrete, applicable strategies that will enable me to improve my memory. 


Focus on getting information that you can use—and then put it into practice. As David Allen said, “If you’re not sure why you’re doing something, you can never do enough of it.”


Interest: 
Your level of interest sets the direction of your attention and, therefore, your level of focus. If you are not interested, remembering what you read will be almost impossible. When something is high on your interest list your mind is alert, disciplined, and focused. When something is lower on your interest list you hesitate and procrastinate.


When you are interested in a subject and your concentration is at a peak, you can remember mountains of information. It almost feels automatic. Attention deficits are mostly interest deficits. 
Your mind never wanders; it moves toward more interesting things.


We all know that interest improves concentration but how do we get interested in “boring” information? The first step is to find your interests and then find links or connections between your interests and the new information. For example, I’m interested in training and sharing knowledge with other people. When I read anything, I always search for new information relating to my interest. When I read or listen through my interest filter, I am focused and I can concentrate. I always ask myself questions like “How does this connect to training? How will it improve my life? If I read or remember this, will it give me something that few people know? Will it help me in the future? How does this material help me achieve my goals?” 


In other words, all “boring” information can be made more interesting with the right mindset. Gilbert Chesterton said, “There are no uninteresting things, only uninterested people.” 
So get interested!


Curiosity:
 Questions are the answer to improving curiosity. Before you start reading or learning anything, ask yourself motivational questions. Most people ask questions that don’t move them to action. They look at the book and say things like, “Why do I have to read this book? This is too much to read. It looks really boring.” 


If you ask questions like that, how much energy will you have to learn? You want to ask energy-enhancing questions that get you engaged in the information. Ask yourself, “How is this relevant and applicable to my life right now? How will this information help me achieve my goals? How can I apply this information to improve my work? How will this help me? How will this information make me more significant?” These simple questions could help you turn a “boring” textbook into the most interesting and memorable book you’ve ever read.


Get curious about your mind and how it works. Tony Robbins says, “If you want to cure boredom, be curious. If you’re curious, nothing is a chore; it’s automatic—you want to study. Cultivate curiosity, and life becomes an unending study of joy.”


4. Eliminate Worry


Imagine you woke up one day and didn’t have to worry. How would you feel? You would feel peaceful; there would be no thoughts sending stress emotions through your system. Imagine knowing you didn’t have to control other people’s behaviors. Imagine you didn’t have to believe the latest fear rumor.


Byron Katie says, “I could only find three kinds of business in the world—mine, yours, and God’s. Whose business are you in?” 


You become more relaxed when you decide to take up residence in your own mind and your own business. Life is easy when you simplify and make peace with your train of thought. You suffer when you believe your “bad” thinking. How many people, events, and things did you try to control with your mind today? 


You don’t worry because you care; you worry because that is what you have learned to do. Worry is a creative mental process. By asking yourself “what if” questions, you set your mind up to worry. If you consistently ask, “What if I lose my job?” “What if I crash my car?” “What if criminals attack me?” then you will create “movies” in your mind that constantly loop those scenarios and cultivate a state of worry. 


Rather, say to yourself, “What would I do if I lost my job?” or “What would I do if I crashed my car?” The movies created by these questions don’t loop you into worry. They give you action steps that direct your mind. Create a procedure for different scenarios and make peace with your thinking.


Learn to practice peace, because if you have no attention you have no retention.


Most people swing from one emotional extreme to the other. Concentration is about learning how to stay centered. When you concentrate your power, you can achieve anything. Imagine your mind is a flashlight. Most people allow their flashlights to jump all over the place, diffusing the light’s power. You want yours to stand still and shine brightly. Nothing outside of you is going to fix your concentration; it is an inside job.


You need to make a decision today: Do you want to improve your concentration or don’t you? It is always up to you. Eliminate your excuses, clean up your beliefs, and be here now!















Chapter 4
Bring Information to Life


Your mind is the greatest home entertainment centre ever created.
~Mark Victor Hansen


Many people dream of having 
a photographic memory. They define it as the ability to take a quick, effortless mental picture of information, and then recall it in detail. Unfortunately, photographic memory is a myth. All perfect memory takes conscious effort. 


Memory is a creative, not photographic, process. Many people credited with a “photographic” memory are, on one level or another, simply using the methods that you will learn in this book. If you take these methods into your life, you too will tap into your natural memory power. Perfect memory is a skill and not a special gift.


Have you ever had this experience? You are in an exam, and you know exactly what page the information is on but you don’t know what is on the page. Or you are reading something and you get to the bottom of a page and think to yourself, “What have I just read?” This happens because you never brought the information to life.


Think about it: What happens when you read a novel or a story? You make a kind of movie in your mind, don’t you? You can remember all the names of the characters, places, and events because you can see them—you create pictures while reading, using your imagination and natural creative ability.


When people start to learn textbook material, however, they try to make a mental photograph or recording of the page but leave their creative abilities out of the process. People that learn quickly or have a so-called photographic memory apply creativity to everything they learn. They may have learned how to do this, or may use the principles unconsciously.


Many people try to remember information by sound—repeating it over and over again, hoping it will somehow stick. But sound is very limited because it doesn’t attach easily to other memories. A sound is also sequential; to remember information by sound, you have to start at the beginning and work your way through it. When you see information as an image in your mind, however, you can jump in and out of it; this improves your understanding, too.


Any book that you really enjoy activates your imagination and brings the information to life. You naturally get engaged in the book and you battle to put it down because you don’t want to turn the “movie” off.


Your mind is like an internal movie screen on which you can produce information. This is how we think and learn effectively. Your brain creates miracles every day by converting lifeless information into pictures and ideas. When you become aware of this, every word becomes a picture drawn with letters, because words are symbols of three-dimensional images. Arthur Gordon said, “Isn’t it amazing how we take them for granted? Those little black marks on paper. Twenty-six different shapes known as letters, arranged in endless combinations, known as words, lifeless, until someone’s eye falls on them.”


If your brain wasn’t able to make images out of symbols, learning and reading would be worthless and incredibly boring. Your brain likes pictures and is really good at remembering them. As neuroscientist John Medina said, “Hear a piece of information and three days later you’ll remember 10% of it. Add a picture and you’ll remember 65%.”


Reading comprehension is also a creative process. We succeed in this area when we produce images in our minds. When we don’t, we feel confused or ignorant. What if I try to tell you how a car engine works but you don’t know what an engine looks like? If I don’t have one to show you or a drawing to represent it, it will be really difficult for you to understand, let alone remember.


The more we turn information into images or mind movies, the more we will remember and comprehend. We can make all our learning more creative and memorable if we use our unlimited imagination. It is a power that can be compared to magic.


Some people say, “I can’t make pictures in my mind.” 


We all make pictures in our minds. If you were unable to create or remember visual images, you would be severely handicapped. Learn to utilize your imagination; it is a learned skill and not a natural talent. So change your belief that you can’t make pictures in your mind because it’s not true and it’s only going to hold you back from learning and improving your memory!


You can learn to enhance your memory imagination system by making your mind movies exciting and “sticky.” The way to do this is with the SEE principle.


The SEE Principle 


S—Senses
: There are only five ways to get anything into your brain, and those are through your senses: sight, sound, smell, touch, and taste. Your senses help you mentally recreate your world. If you learn to engage your senses, you will use more of your brain and improve your memory. 


Think of a horse. See it in your mind. Touch it, smell it, and hear it. You didn’t see the letters H-O-R-S-E in your mind; you saw a multisensory picture of what the word represents. Your senses make mind movies real and memorable. Use them!


E—Exaggeration
: Throughout this book, we will use images to represent concepts that we’d like to remember. But not just any images—exaggerated, sometimes silly, and sometimes nonsensical mind pictures. Which is easier to remember: a strawberry that is normal size, or one the size of a house? An elephant, or an elephant wearing a pink bikini? Make your mental images larger or smaller than life. The more you exaggerate the image you’re using to help you remember a concept, the easier it will be to recall later on.


Exaggerate with humor; tickle your mind. There is no scientific evidence that learning must be serious. Make your images illogical. Have fun; create some exaggerated images to improve your memory.


E—Energize
: Give your mental pictures action. Would you rather watch a movie of your holiday or a slide show? What creates more feeling in your imagination: a horse standing still or a horse that is running and moving?


Make your mental images as vivid and colorful as you can, not boring, flat, or black and white. Use action; it brings life to even the dullest information. Make your images act in illogical ways: You can weave, crash, stick, or wrap things together to help you remember them. Make things talk, sing, and dance. Think about the creations of the great genius Walt Disney: His characters and settings simply vibrate with life and fun—it’s why they became so beloved, and more importantly, so memorable.


The process of imagination is a fun and creative process. The more enjoyment you can put into it, the better.


When you read or hear something you want to remember, you can’t just will yourself to remember it. You have to focus on all the SEE principles and use your imagination to guarantee you’ll remember that information. Even if you don’t use a specific method from this book, the SEE principles will improve your concentration. Emile Coué pointed out that “When the imagination and the will are in conflict, the imagination always wins.” If you will yourself to remember something without using your imagination, you will have zero retention and recall. Your imagination is the key to unlocking your unlimited memory power.


Some people say, “This is not the way I naturally think.” 


This is not the way that I naturally think either; this is how I have taught myself to think, because it works. 


The more skilled you become in using your imagination, the more you can know, comprehend, and create. In this way, you become the director of your own mind.


Turning Abstract Information Into Images


How do I turn abstract information into images?


We remember many nouns and adjectives with ease because they have concrete meanings and we can form a mental picture of them without much effort. 


Most abstract words can also be made into mental pictures. Just use a meaningful thought or word to represent a “meaningless” word. Find a word or phrase that sounds the same as or similar to the abstract word, or break up the word into its individual sounds. 


Imagine you had to remember the name 
Washington.
 You could turn that word into a picture of someone 
washing
 a
 tin
 can. If you had to remember the word 
hydrogen
, you could see a picture of a fire 
hydrant
 drinking 
gin
.


You can transform all complex information into something meaningful and memorable by turning it into images. In the beginning, investing your attention in this task will take a bit of effort, but then it will become a habit. 


To practice, look at words, break them up, and create pictures to give them more meaning. Let’s start with a few foreign words. Really imagine each word by creating a SEE movie in your mind.


Here
 are some Spanish words:




Tiger is 
tigre
. It sounds like “tea gray.” Imagine a 
tiger
 drinking 
tea
 that has turned 
gray
.


Sun is 
sol
. Imagine that the 
sun
 is burning the 
sole
 of your foot.




Some Italian words:




Chicken is 
pollo
. You can imagine playing 
polo
 with a 
chicken
 instead of a ball.


Cat is 
gato
. Imagine saying to your friend, “You’ve 
got to
 hold my 
cat
.”




Some French words:




Book is 
livre
. It sounds like “lever,” so imagine pulling a 
lever
 to open a 
book
.


Chair is 
chaise
. It sounds like “shezz.” Imagine you’re playing 
chess 
while sitting in a 
chair
.




Some Zulu words:




Dog is 
inja
 (EEN-jaa). Think of an 
injured dog
.


Snake is 
inyoka
 (ee-NYO-kaa). Imagine a 
snake
 slithering 
in your car
.




Some Japanese words:




Chest is 
mune
 (moo-NEH). Imagine 
money
 growing out of your 
chest
.


Door is 
toa
 (doh-AH). Imagine you are kicking the 
door
 with your big 
toe
.




Test yourself:




What is the Spanish word for tiger?


What is the Italian word for cat?


What is the Zulu word for dog?


What is the Japanese word for chest?


What is the French word for book?


What is the Italian word for chicken?


What is the Zulu word for snake?




Just by connecting these words with silly mind movies, you have learned 12 foreign words. You can use the SEE principle to remember hundreds of foreign words by connecting just two concepts at a time. If you imagine each concept for a few seconds, it will stick in your memory and be easy to recall if you need it.


You can even use this method to remember countries and capitals. You just need to bring the information to life.




Canberra, Australia: Imagine a 
kangaroo
 (which represents Australia) eating a 
can
 of 
berries
.


Athens, Greece: Imagine 
eight hens
 swimming in 
grease
.


Antananarivo, Madagascar: Imagine a 
mad gas car
 crashing into your friend 
Ann
, who is 
tan
ning on 
a river
.


Brussels, Belgium: Imagine 
Brussels
 sprouts falling out of a 
bell
 in a 
gym
.




Imagine a silly picture—really SEE it—and you will remember all the capitals with ease.


The greatest secret to having a powerful memory is bringing information to life with your endless imagination.
 


Take responsibility for your memory. You can only learn to control it when you harness your imagination. Memory is not a thing that happens to you; you create your memories. You can make any information into something more meaningful. When you start to use the memory systems in this book, you will see how easy it is to convert abstract information into meaningful concepts. Using these memory methods improves your creativity and enhances your memory—and it’ll boost your humor too.















Chapter 5
Use Your Car to Remember


Making the simple complicated is commonplace;
making the complicated simple, awesomely simple, that’s creativity.
~Charles Mingus


You have just learned to 
bring information to life by turning it into pictures or mind movies. Now you will learn to create organized “files” for those pictures in your long-term memory. Organizing new information is key to retention and retrieval. 


The method that I will share with you now is called the 
“car method.” Your car is a great long-term memory storage compartment because you know it well and can easily navigate it in your mind. With this method, as with all of them, I want you to see the images in your mind. Remember: Every word in any language is only a picture drawn with letters. Get rid of excuses like “I’m not creative” or “I don’t think like this.”


This isn’t how I think either; this is how I have trained myself to think, because it works.


This may seem silly, but just go with it. I promise that you will see the point and you will remember the information. It takes time to explain, but once you get it, it works at the speed of thought. The only reason it won’t work for you is if you don’t do it.


We are going to use nouns for this exercise because they are easy to imagine and therefore easier to control and store. (In the second exercise, and the rest of the book, we will use more abstract information.) 


See your car in your mind. Imagine squeezing a big 
apple
 into the front grille. Take a 
carrot
 and stab it into the hood. On the windshield, see 
grainy bread
, and think to yourself, “That grainy bread is going to damage my wipers.” Get inside your car and squash 
dried fruit
 on the dashboard—really see it mash into your speedometer. Imagine you are sitting on 
blueberries 
and 
strawberries
—really feel them. Throw 
eggs
 at the person sitting in the passenger seat next to you—they now have egg on their face. Imagine you are pouring thousands of 
nuts
 and 
seeds
 onto your back seat. Get out of your car and imagine a massive 
orange
 on your roof. You open the trunk and it is full of 
fish
—really smell the fish. There is 
broccoli
 in the tailpipe, and 
Brussels sprouts
 are the exhaust fumes. Finally, the tires are made out of 
sweet potatoes
. Sweet!


Go through your car, from the beginning to the end, and see if you can remember all the information. If a word didn’t stick, go back, make the connection stronger, and see it more clearly in your mind.


You have just learned 14 superfoods: foods that have been shown to improve your vitality and keep your mind agile and alert. Not only do you know the list, you also know it in any order. What is on the roof? What are the car tires made of? What was on the driver’s seat? What is on the hood of the car? Your mind automatically makes the connections and recalls the answers to the questions. The vivid image of the list is easier to use and think about than a plain series of words.


Some people say, “But now I have to remember the car, too; you are giving me more to remember.” 


Not true. With each memory system, you will use something that is already in your memory. In fact, you are simply using all of the otherwise unused space in your long-term memory.


You remembered the entire list with ease. Why does this system work so well? If you throw water into a sieve it goes in and straight through. If you line the sieve with a plastic bag, the water gets trapped. 


Your memory works in the same way. Your long-term memory (things that are in your memory forever, like your name and what your house looks like) is like the plastic bag that can be used to trap short-term memories (new pieces of information coming in, like a new telephone number). When you do that, you make a strong medium-term memory (MTM).


The car list works because your whole car is in your long-term memory (LTM). LTM offers you a place to store the new information; that is, the locations in the car become “storage compartments” for short-term memories (STMs). All the memory methods in this book work with this formula:


LTM + STM = MTM


All of the methods also organize information and make it easier to find. Which is easier to remember, “super memory” or “yomerm puers”? Same letters, but very different meanings. The second is, of course, harder to memorize. The more order you put into a subject, the easier it is to remember.


The secret to accelerated learning is superior organization.


We can use the car method to remember other new information, too. By using the multiple cars you already have in your memory—your current car, the last car you had, your dream car, an SUV, a minivan, a convertible, etc.—you can create innumerable memory “files” in your long-term memory, each of which can store massive amounts of new information with ease.


Let’s try the car method with another, more conceptual example. Maybe you want to remember the principles laid out in Stephen Covey’s 
Seven Habits of Highly Effective People
 so you can more effectively implement his Seven Habits in your everyday life. 


First, be clear about what it is you’re trying to remember. Here are the Seven Habits, with brief descriptions in case you’re unfamiliar with the book:


Habit 1: Be proactive
.	
Take responsibility, and don’t wait for problems to happen before taking action.


Habit 2: Begin with the end in mind
.	
Envision your future so you can create a plan and work toward your goal.


Habit 3: Put first things first.	
Prioritize the things that are important (have long-term impacts) but not urgent.
 


Habit 4: Think win/win
. 	
Strive for mutually beneficial solutions.


Habit 5: Seek first to understand, then to be understood.
 
Listen empathetically to promote positive problem solving.


Habit 6: Synergize
. 	
Teamwork will allow you to achieve goals you couldn’t have achieved alone.


Habit 7: Sharpen the saw
. 	
Foster good habits by balancing your resources, energy, and health to achieve a sustainable lifestyle.


While these concepts should be applied every day, in everything you do, on their own, they can be challenging to remember. By using the car method, remembering the Seven Habits becomes easy and fun.


Here is a picture of a car with seven images on it to represent the Seven Habits. 












Habit 1: Be proactive.
 

  I thought of a bee that is a pro golfer standing on the front bumper. 


Habit 2: Begin with the end in mind.	
The brain (or mind) is running a race on the hood, and looking at the end.


Habit 3: Put first things first
.	
The man on the windshield is in first place, putting first things first.


Habit 4: Think win/win.	
The two trophies on the seat show that everyone wins with win/win.


Habit 5: Seek first to understand, then to be understood.	
The man 
under
 the umbrella on the trunk will 
stand
 up.


Habit 6: Synergize.	
A sign balancing on the 
edge
 of the car with
 eyes.


Habit 7: Sharpen the saw.	
A 
sharp saw
 on the tire of the car.


Look at the picture for a little while and make sure that you can clearly recreate the whole image in your mind. Break the images down; make sure that each one sticks to its place.


By remembering all seven images, you’ve created points of reference within your mind for each habit. When you have them in your memory, it will be easier to gauge if you are living the Seven Habits. When you mentally look at the car, you will instantly be able to recall all the information. Remember: The more you know, the easier it is to get to know more.


When visualizing something to memorize it, always use as few pictures as possible to remember as much as possible. The simpler and clearer the picture is, the less overwhelmed you will feel.


To that end, this car image does double duty. In the book, Covey explains the difference between “private victory” and “public victory.” “Private victories” are personal; they relate to you as an individual. “Public victories” are interpersonal; they relate to your success as part of a team. The first three habits are categorized as 
private victories
: You can think of the front of your car as private; you are the only one that opens the hood of your car. Habits 4, 5 and 6 are 
public victories
: You allow others to get into your car, which is why it is public. Habit 7 doesn’t fit into either category, so it is outside the car: it keeps everything else in check.


Remember these habits, read the book to deepen your understanding and retention, and then live them. As Stephen Covey said, “Habits can be learned and unlearned. But I also know it isn’t a quick fix. It involves a process and a tremendous commitment.”


In this chapter you have been able to remember 21 bits of useful information by organizing it clearly, therefore allowing you to use more of your memory power and potential. 


You can make many more storage compartments in and on your car. If you need to remember a more complex information set, you can use every detail of your car to find at least one hundred storage places. You can also create compartments in any other medium or large-size object that’s already in your long-term memory , including other forms of transportation you use regularly: buses, trains, subways, airplanes, etc.















Chapter 6
Use Your Body to Remember


The music of your life is far better played with all the fingers of your Multiple Intelligences performing their magic on the keyboard of your existence.
~Tony Buzan


The quote you have just 
read was taken from Tony’s book Head First. In this book he says that we have at least 10 intelligences. I like to remember these intelligences to remind myself how incredible we are and to focus on improving them daily. 


But before I get ahead of myself, let me demonstrate how to remember these intelligences with another system called the “body method.” It is similar to the car method, but this time we will use parts of our body to store the new information. There are plenty of storage compartments that you can use, but for this demonstration I’ll use just 10. This information is a bit more abstract, and it will require you to think more creatively. Let’s give it a go.


The first intelligence is 
creative
 intelligence, and you’ll store that on your feet. I want you to imagine that you are standing on a big bright
 light bulb 
(to represent creative ideas), and it is burning your feet. To strengthen the association, you can also imagine you are painting a beautiful work of art on your feet.


On the second place, your knees, you are going to store 
personal
 intelligence (self-knowledge, self-fulfillment, self-understanding). Now imagine a big 
purse
 (sounds like “personal”) on your knees. Create a bit of action with this picture; imagine opening the purse on your knees and your knees come flying out of it. Personal intelligence is about taking responsibility, so own the purse on your knees.


The next storage compartment is your thighs. Here you will store 
social 
intelligence. Imagine people having a big 
party 
(social) on your thighs. Really see the party and feel it happening on your thighs.


The next place is your belt or hips; you will store 
spiritual
 intelligence there. Imagine a beautiful 
angel 
on your belt, or that the angel is buckling your belt (angels represent spirituality). 


Now review all the previous images, from your feet to your hips. The words you want to remember are creative, personal, social, and spiritual.


Next, you’ll store your 
physical
 intelligence on your stomach. Imagine getting 
physical
, doing sit-ups, and your stomach becomes muscular—the perfect six pack.


Imagine your 
sensual
 intelligence is in your left hand. Here you can imagine an eye, nose, and ear in your hand to remind
 
you of your 
senses
.


Then in your right hand, place 
sexual
 intelligence—here you can make up your own picture.


Let’s review quickly: So far, you have stored creative, personal, social, spiritual, physical, sensual, and sexual intelligence.


The next place is your mouth, for 
numerical
 intelligence. Imagine big, bright, colorful 
numbers
 flying out of your mouth, or imagine that you can only speak in numbers.


For 
spatial
 intelligence, see a 
spaceship
 landing on your nose and forehead, or see a spaceship flying up your nose.


Finally, store your 
verbal
 intelligence on the top of your head. Imagine writing 
words
 on your hair, or that your hair is talking. 


Now that all the intelligences have been assigned a body part, let’s review the list:


Creative and emotional intelligences


The creative and emotional intelligences are stored on your feet, legs, and hips.




Creative intelligence


Personal intelligence 


Social intelligence


Spiritual intelligence


Bodily intelligences
These are stored on the biggest part of your body, the torso, and in your hands.


Physical intelligence


Sensual intelligence


Sexual intelligence
Traditional intelligences
These are the head intelligences.


Numerical intelligence


Spatial intelligence


Verbal intelligence




The body method helps you structure this information so that you can easily jump in and out of the material. When you read 
Head First,
 this body list will be a powerful memory matrix that will attract more information and improve your understanding and recognition of the content. 


If you learn about other theories of intelligence, such as the eight modalities proposed by Howard Gardner’s 
Frames of Mind,
 you can easily slot that information into relevant compartments. When you hear people discussing IQ you will also immediately know (remember) that IQ only tests three intelligences—the head intelligences.


Most of us have been taught to think that we are either intelligent or we are not. But the definitions of intelligence we learned at school were built around the specific types of intelligence that are most valued at school—verbal intelligence and numerical intelligence.
~Paul McKenna


The body method was originally invented by the ancient Greeks. You can use it to remember information for exams, work, shopping, or any list of items. You can even use it to remember things when you don’t have a pen at hand, like when you are in the shower. I just used 10 body parts as an example, but you can use your back, ears, eyes, nose … you can use it all. Just make sure you connect the body part and the information in a humorous way (remember the SEE principles), and that you remember the order. I have been able to use this method to remember 50 bits of information. I like to use this system so that I can consistently have the information at my fingertips—literally!















Chapter 7
Pegging Information


The existence of forgetting has never been proved:
We only know that some things don’t come to mind
when we want them.
~Friedrich Nietzsche


Have you ever had an 
experience in which you smell something and your memory instantly takes you back to another time? The smell is a link to the experience. Or has hearing a song released a whole stream of memories in your mind?


We can take conscious control of this principle to create another system for our memory skills toolbox. This is the first system that I ever learned, and it introduced me to my memory potential. It worked so well that it seemed like a trick and ever since that day I have been amazed by the power of my memory. It is called the “peg method” of memory.


Using the power of our associative mind, we will learn two “peg” methods of memory.  The “shape peg” method was developed in 1651 by Henry Herdson, who linked numbers to objects shaped like the digits. The “rhyming peg” method was introduced two centuries later by John Sambrook in 1879.


These methods are very simple and effective. They will provide you with a system that can help you remember 40 or more bits of information in a short space of time. You can even access the information in random order and by number.


Rhyming Pegs


In the rhyming pegs method, the pegs act like clothes pegs or clothespins: They keep information hanging around in your mind. The pegs themselves must become part of your long-term memory for them to work. 


Remember: You always need your long-term memory to assist your short-term memory. With this method, you associate new information to long-term “memory pegs” in your mind. The pegs also act as compartments or files for your new thoughts. 


The method is simple—it makes memory pegs out of words that rhyme with numbers. We will use the following rhyming words as mental files:


“One” rhymes with “bun.”	
Two–shoe	
Three–tree	
Four–door	
Five–hive	
Six–sticks	
Seven–heaven	
Eight–gate	
Nine–vine	
Ten–hen


Each of these pegs can become compartments to store new information. You link the peg (using the SEE principle) to the words that you want to remember.


Tony 
Robbins’s life-changing book 
Awaken the Giant Within
 lists the “10 emotions of power.” I want you to use this new system so that you can hold these emotions in your mind. Think about them daily, because personal development only happens when you can remember what you need to act on.


The 10 emotions of power are:




Love and warmth


Appreciation and gratitude


Curiosity


Excitement and passion


Determination


Flexibility


Confidence


Cheerfulness


Vitality


Contribution




Remember to make the images illogical. See the information in your mind for a few seconds. Take your time and make the associations strong; you can also draw an image to help you more fully experience the information.


One–bun
: Imagine a warm, heart-shaped bun, or imagine that thousands of warm hearts are flying out of a bun. Since a heart is a symbol for love, if you really visualize it you will remember that one is 
love and warmth
.


Two–shoe
: Imagine that a preacher is grating a shoe with a cheese grater. The word preacher can remind you of 
appreciation
, and grater, 
gratitude
.


Three–tree
: Imagine a cat in a tree, but don’t make it logical. Imagine perhaps that the branches look like cats, cats are hanging off the branches, or cats are growing out of the tree. Curiosity killed the cat. So, three is 
curiosity
.


Four–door
: Imagine an excited person bashing down your door. Or the door is so excited it jumps up and down and opens and closes. Then you squeeze passion fruit on the excited door. Four is
 excitement and passion
.


Five–hive
: Imagine determined bees trying to break open a beehive. The bees are a “determined nation.” 
Determination
 is five.


Six–sticks
: Imagine bending a stick into a spiral like a pig’s tail; really feel how flexible the stick can be. Six is 
flexibility
.


Seven–heaven
: Imagine heaven is full of confident people. See them walking tall with confidence that they are in paradise. Seven is 
confidence
.


Eight–gate
: See a smiley-face-shaped gate. You cheerfully open the cheerful gate. Eight is
 cheerfulness
.


Nine–vine
: See vitamins growing like grapes on a vine. As you eat these vitamin grapes you feel your sense of 
vitality
 improve.


Ten–hen
: Imagine a hen giving you presents. She is a “contributing hen.” Ten is 
contribution
.


Really see each link picture in your mind and make it clear. You should now know these emotions forward, backward, and in random order. Test yourself to see if you have them all.


Practice feeling these emotions, because you become good at what you practice. Tony Robbins says, “You are the source of all your emotions; you are the one who creates them. Plant these emotions daily, and watch your whole life grow with vitality that you’ve never dreamed of before.”


The rhyming peg method can be extended by finding additional words that rhyme with the number, e.g.: one—bun, gun, sun. With this method, you can easily create a peg system to store up to 30 bits of new information.


Shape Pegs


The second peg method, the shape system, converts numbers into concrete shapes. It works in the same way as the rhyming peg method, only this time the pegs are shaped like the number. We are not going to do an exercise with this system, because you have already learned the principle in the rhyme list. The shape method just gives you another option.


Use this list on your own to remember 10 bits of new information. Play with it and have a bit of fun. Here is the list:












Using the Peg System


You can use any list that is already in your long-term memory to create all kinds of new peg lists. You can make up words and images for each letter of the alphabet (e.g., apple, bucket, cat, dolphin), the months of the year, subway stops on your way to work—any list that you can remember in order. Enjoy using this method and finding new ways to improve it.















Chapter 8
Spaces in Places


Whatever you think about, that’s what you remember.
Memory is the residue of thought.
~Daniel T. Willingham


The system that you are 
about to discover is the most incredible tool you will ever learn. It will help you grow in ways that you could never imagine. It is so simple and it has been around for 2,500 years, and yet few have harnessed its potential. You can use this system to remember any amount of information—mountains of it. It takes practice, but once you use it you will never look back.


I find this method to be the most effective of all the memory systems. Using it is as easy as remembering a journey. It may seem too simple to be effective, but it works because it doesn’t overwhelm you.


This method uses the same process as the car and body lists, but this time we will use places or markers in a location, on a journey, or on a route to store information.


Here’s how it works:




Prepare in your mind an organized location, such as a house layout, a shopping mall, or the route you take from your house to the mall.


Create markers or places in this location or along the route, as we did with the body and car lists. Use an easy-to-follow order.


Using the SEE principles, make a clear image of the information that you want to remember.


Place each item you are trying to remember on one of the marked locations.




In short, it is as simple as finding a place or route in your mind to store the information. This system makes remembering large amounts of information as easy as remembering a trip to the nearest shop. You are using the LTM + STM = MTM formula again.


The Journey Method


Let me introduce you to this “journey method” with a short exercise. We are going to store 12 useful principles from one of John C. Maxwell’s books. I really enjoy his books because they are always very well organized and therefore make remembering the information easier. He begins with a list of topics that he will cover and then writes in more detail about each one. 


You can use the systems to remember his lists and laws and become an expert in leadership. Once the information is in a memorable matrix, it helps long-term storage and use by attracting more information to it. And once you have it in your head it’s much easier to use, because what is the use of learning information if you can’t recall what you know?


In his book 
Today Matters
, Maxwell shares 12 keys that you can focus on each day to be more successful and fulfilled in your life. He calls these keys the “daily dozen” because, as he says, “You will never change your life until you change something you do daily.” 


Here are the keys:




Attitude


Priorities


Health


Family


Thinking


Commitment


Finances


Faith


Relationships


Generosity


Values


Growth




Most people will repeat the list of information over and over again and try to force it into their memory. Unfortunately, rote learning and constant repetition are frustrating and can create an aversion to learning. 


The more you can encode information into your memory, however, the more effective the learning will be. Using the journey method will help you find the “fun” in 
F
r
U
stratio
N
 by focusing your attention and connecting each thought to a place. Try this little exercise with me.


I am going to use four rooms in my house to give you an example of how this system works. The rooms are compartments in my mind that I can use to store new information. Let me guide you through the house and we’ll store the information together.


Make sure that your markers are in an easy-to-follow order. Then review them to make sure you have clear storage compartments. The markers should be near each other, but nicely spaced out so that each item you want to remember is placed in a unique memory file in your mind.


Here is a mental map of four rooms in my house and 12 places that we will use:


Room 1 Kitchen:
 1–dishwasher, 2–fridge, 3–stove


Room 2 TV room:
 4–chairs, 5–TV, 6–exercise bike


Room 3 Bedroom:
 7–mirror, 8–closet, 9–bed


Room 4 Bathroom:
 10–bath, 11–shower, 12–toilet












If I gave you a box with 12 objects in it, would you be able to place those objects on the furniture in my house? Of course you would! So all we do is turn the information into something tangible, like an object, and then place it in the room.


Let’s start in the kitchen. The first word is 
attitude
. Imagine someone with a really bad attitude jumping into your dishwasher. Clean up his attitude in the machine. SEE it!


Next, imagine writing all of your 
priorities
 on the refrigerator door. Use a permanent marker and think about how your priorities are permanently stored on the fridge door.


Imagine a healthy bodybuilder making applesauce on the stove. The apples are a reminder for 
health
.


So what was in the dishwasher? On the fridge? At the stove?


Now let’s move to the TV room. The first place in there is the chairs. Imagine your whole
 family
 is jumping up and down on the chairs. The more illogical the image, the better it will stick.


The second place is the TV. Imagine a thought bubble coming out of the TV, because it is a 
thinking
 machine that also influences our thinking.


The final place in the room is the exercise bike, so imagine combing (reminds you of the first few letters of commitment) the exercise bike. It is also a 
commitment
 to use the bike.


In my bedroom, the first place is the mirror. Imagine money flying out of the mirror. Your 
finances 
are a mirror of your productivity.


Whatever represents faith for you, place it inside the closet. Put 
faith
 on every shelf or hanger.


The next word we want to place on our memory journey is 
relationships
, and that is on the bed. Once again, you can make your own picture here.


The final room is the bathroom. See a genie jumping out of the bath and giving you what you wish. The genie’s giving reminds us of 
generosity
.


Imagine the shower is made out of gold, or you turn on the tap and gold runs out of it. Gold has great value, and represents 
values
.


At the last place, we imagine a tree growing out of the toilet for 
growth
.


Test yourself: What word was connected to each place?












You have just learned the 12 keys in Maxwell’s book 
Today Matters
, and it was as easy as walking around my house. Go through this list a few times and you will know the daily dozen. You will remember all the words if you have connected them properly. 


You will get even better results with this method if you use your own environment, because you are more aware of the order of the places. Review the list backward and you will notice that it will all still be there. Doing this makes the images even clearer for your memory. 


This is your first memory route or journey, and it should open your mind to the possibility of having a perfect memory. This method helps you see the big picture as well as zoom in on details. It brings concepts to life and makes them concrete. Since we remember what we think about, it is always easier to remember something that you experienced in your mind.


Every memory master uses this method more than any other. It is extremely effective because you can make thousands of storage places. Think about how many markers you can make. You have visited many places in your life; you can use buildings, museums, schools, shopping malls—almost any location that you know. Make sure to choose places you know well, that have significance for you, and that have lots of variety. You can make routes as long as you want; you can have a place or route for every subject you are learning. Remember to have fun!


This system will change the way that you learn forever. The only effort will be trying to improve your ability to make images and place them on a familiar mental journey. It’s like having crib notes or a teleprompter inside your head: The journey is like the paper and the images are like the ink. Your imagination can attach any information to a familiar journey. 


I have helped medical students, law students, pilots, managers, and business people remember all kinds of information with this method. I used it to store the first 10,000 digits of pi. A friend of mine, Dr. Yip Swee Chooi, remembered the entire 
Oxford English Dictionary
—1,774 pages, word for word—with this method. Anyone can store an unlimited amount of information if they choose to spend the time doing it. 


Some people say, “I will run out of space.” 


If I gave you a truck full of objects to place in a shopping mall, would you be able to do that? Of course you would. If you look for them, you will find thousands and thousands of places just waiting to be used in your mind. There are no limits to this system, only limits in your own thinking.


The important thing is that you practice. The more you practice, the better you will become.















Chapter 9
Linking Thoughts


No memory is ever alone; it’s at the end of a trail
of memories, a dozen trails that
each have their own associations.
~Louis L’Amour


In the previous chapters, we 
learned to bring information to life, and to store it in a long-term memory compartment system. In this chapter, we will learn to link thoughts together. This is a way to direct attention, strengthen imagination, and improve your ability to associate concepts. Your mind is an associating machine and it has no limits.


I often hear people say, “Oh, do you learn by association?” We learn 
only
 by association. Learning connects new information to old information; it doesn’t happen any other way. It creates a relationship between the known and the unknown. The more you know, the easier it is to connect more information, and to know even more.


Let’s memorize a list to experience this method. It will seem silly, but stick with it and you will see the point. Don’t worry—this story takes longer to explain than to use. Remember to use the SEE principle as you read.


I want you to imagine that you are 
washing
 a 
tin
; really see it in your mind. As you wash the tin, it suddenly begins to develop a huge 
Adam’s
 apple. A 
chef
 and 
her son
 grab the Adam’s apple and rip it out. The chef and her son then decide to make some 
medicine
. They give it to Marilyn 
Monroe, 
and she starts to develop a massive 
Adam’s
 apple too. Michael 
Jackson
 sees her Adam’s apple throbbing, runs away screaming, and jumps into a 
van
 with 
beer in
 it. The van is being driven by a big yellow 
hairy sun
—really see it. Make it silly, hairy, and let it stick. The hairy sun doesn’t drive very well and crashes into a 
tiler
 who is tiling a wall. The tiler’s tiles are covered in 
polka 
dots. A 
tailor
 takes the polka dots off and starts tailoring a polka-dotted suit.


Now recall the story and all the key words. If you didn’t get it all, read it again and make the links stronger. See if you can do it backward, too.


What you have just learned are the first 12 presidents of the United States. You can remember all 45 presidents just by linking one thought to the next. If you have any problems recalling the list, just make it more detailed and make the links clearer.


Here is the list of the first 12 presidents:




George Washington: 
washing
 a 
tin


John Adams: 
Adam’s
 apple


Thomas Jefferson: a 
chef
 and 
her son


James Madison: 
medicine


James Monroe: Marilyn 
Monroe


John Quincy Adams: 
Adam’s
 apple


Andrew Jackson: Michael 
Jackson


Martin Van Buren: a 
van 
with 
beer in
 it


William Henry Harrison: a 
hairy sun


John Tyler: a 
tiler 
(a person who lays tiles)


James K. Polk: 
polk
a dots


Zachary Taylor: 
tailor




Once you have the list in your mind, go through it forward and backward a few times to make sure it is all there. You can also link more information to the list, so it becomes like a new peg list. 


You could link each vice president to their president, just like we did with the foreign words and capitals. You can also connect your links or stories to some of the other systems that you have learned. You can link more than one concept using the car, body, pegs, or journey methods. You can remember thousands of words or concepts by connecting linked ideas to a short mental journey.


This method is powerful because we use more of our creativity and imagination to make the information stand out. This stimulates our interest and curiosity, keeping our attention at a peak. Each word reminds you of the next, since you are making your own links. 


You can also use this method to memorize paragraphs of information. First, condense everything into a list of key words, and then convert those lists into meaningful link stories. A whole syllabus or textbook can be condensed into a ridiculous story. When you do this, it is easy to remember the information. It gives you a great mental workout and it is fun!















Chapter 10
Remembering Names


Remember that a person’s name is to that person the sweetest and most important sound in any language.
~Dale Carnegie


There is no such thing 
as a good or bad memory for names, there is only good or bad strategy. In this chapter, you will learn strategies that can make a huge difference to your memory for names. Make a commitment today to improve this area of your memory; it will provide numerous benefits and save you from many embarrassing situations.


In Chapter 2, I showed you the self-fulfilling circle. Get rid of your limiting beliefs about your name memory and start to focus on finding a strategy that can help you. Become motivated and interested in how we brand people according to their names.


Imagine you meet a person who says that they will give you a million dollars if you can remember their name a week from today. Would you remember it? Of course you would. We are all brilliant at names if we are motivated enough to hold on to them.


The methods that I will share with you have been used for centuries. They require you to think differently and to use your incredible associating mind. Some people say that they have tried association to remember names and it doesn’t work for them. My answer is that nothing in life works if you don’t practice it. 


The untrained memory is not very reliable. The average person leaves their memory to chance, and hopes that the name will somehow stick. The strategies I will share with you work—use them!


All memory champions use association methods and can easily learn about a hundred names in less than half an hour. I believe that if you copy these strategies you can get the same results. If you don’t, you won’t.


If you want to remember names like a memory master you have to focus on the four Cs.


1. Concentrate


When you meet someone with the same name as you, do you remember their name? Yes, because you are interested in that name, you always hear it, and your attention is at a peak. The name has meaning to you since you also connect it to yourself. If you follow this basic strategy with every person you meet, you will remember their name.


When you are first introduced to someone, they often say their name so quickly you can’t catch it. So the first thing you have to do is take control of the introduction so you can slow it down. 


Next, pay attention and really listen to the name, because if you don’t hear it you will not remember it. As Oliver Wendel Holmes said, “A person must get a thing before they can forget it.” If you hear the name, repeat it back to the person; this will improve your recall. If you don’t hear the name, ask the person to say it again. If it is a difficult name, ask them to spell it, too.


Listen and be genuinely interested in the other person’s name. We are normally so worried about being 
interesting
 that we forget to be 
interested
. Learn to listen to people from their perspective and not your own. This will not only improve your name memory, but your social intelligence, too.


2. Create


Create an image for the name in your mind so you can recreate it later.


Have you ever heard people say, “I know the face, but I can’t remember the name”? You never hear people say, “The face is on the tip of my tongue.” We remember faces because they form images in our minds, but names don’t normally stick because we try to remember them with our auditory memory or our inner voice. It doesn’t make sense to try to associate a sound to an image—it won’t stick. Plus, auditory memories are never as solid as visual memories.


To hold on to a memory, we must make an image out of the name. Remember how we created images out of names when we learned the presidents? When you give a name meaning you can hold on to it.


When you put a name into your mind and you don’t do anything with it, it will disappear and you won’t be able to find it again. That’s because working memory doesn’t store information. So to store it, you’ll need assistance from your short- and long-term memories. You have to really think about the name to remember it because 
we only remember what we think about.


When you are introduced to someone, you only have 20 seconds to think about their name and make an association. If you don’t do anything with the name, in 20 seconds it will be gone. The more connections and meaning you can give the name, the more it will stick.


Some surnames—like Baker, Cruise, or Gardner—will naturally create a picture. My surname is Horsley so you can think of a 
horse
 and Bruce 
Lee. 
My first name is Kevin and it sounds like “cave-in,” making it easy to create an image and meaning out of my name. Other names may be more difficult, but by using a bit of creativity, any name can be given meaning and turned into a picture.


3. Connect


Remember that all learning is creating relationships between the known and the unknown. When you’re introduced to someone, you see (know) their face—an image—so you need to connect their unknown name to their known face. When you see their face again it must act as a trigger or peg to bring the name to your awareness.


Here are some methods to make the connection. All the methods listed here take a great deal longer to explain than to use.


Comparison Connection


With this method, you connect the person to a name that you already know. Let’s say we meet a person by the name of George. To make the name stick, we think of someone that we already know with the same name. Do you know another George? You may even think of someone famous with the same name, like George Clooney.


Next, compare the two people in your mind. What color hair does the George that we are meeting have? What color is the other George’s hair? By comparing just this one feature you will pay more attention than you would have before, therefore making a stronger connection.


By comparing as many features as possible, you will focus your attention and create a long-term impression for perfect recall. It’s as simple as that: Just compare the two faces in your mind and you will remember them. You can cement the memory even more by imagining the person with two heads—their own, and that of the person you already know with the same name.


I like this method because it’s so simple. By taking a long-term name and using it to remember the new, short-term name, it will only take a few seconds to cement the new person’s name in your memory forever.


Some people ask, “What happens if you don’t have a similar name for comparison?” 


You can use one of the other methods that I will show you now. Find the system that works best for you.


Face Connection


With this method, you make a link between the name and an outstanding feature in the person’s appearance. Every face is unique and every face has an outstanding feature. Let me give you an example: Imagine you are introduced to a woman and the first thing you notice about her is that she has striking blue eyes. That will then be her outstanding feature. When she gives you her name, you will then have a place to put the name. Imagine she says her name is Janice. You then make an image of the name: Janice sounds like “
chain ice
.” You then make the connection and think of a 
chain
 of 
ice
 flying out of her blue eyes.


Here is another example: Imagine you meet a man named Peter and you notice that he has a big nose. Turn the name into a picture; “Peter” sounds like “
pea eater
.” Next, quickly make the connection that his nose is a big
 pea eater
. By making a silly, memorable association, you will connect the face and the name together.


I recommend you never tell anyone what you do with their names in your mind; some people may become offended. Peter probably doesn’t need to know that you remembered him by his big, pea-eating nose! Most people identify with their name and consider it their unique brand. If you make fun of it you are making fun of them.


A few questions that people ask about this system are:


What happens if I meet four people and they all have an outstanding nose?


Searching for the outstanding feature helps you focus on the face as you may never have done before. Most people never really look at the person when they are meeting them. So the feature is more about directing your focus on the face and making a connection. I have done a demonstration where I have learned over a hundred names in half an hour using this method. When you meet a hundred people, you use many of the same features, but amazingly, there is never any confusion. Go to Facebook to practice this method, there are millions of faces to choose from.


Can I connect the name to the clothes of a person?


Yes, but only if you notice the person’s face too. People change clothes, but their faces are unique and don’t change much.


What if I find it hard to make a mental picture of the person’s name?


You can imagine writing their name on their forehead. Make sure you use a big fat red mental pen. It is all about creativity.


If you create their name in your mind, you will remember the name with as much ease as you would remember the face.


Meeting Location Connection


After meeting someone for the first time, you tend to remember where you met them. The place makes a clear impression in our memory, but the name is nowhere to be found!


With this method, we connect the name to the place where we are meeting, using a journey peg to hold on to the name. Let’s say you meet a woman by the name of Rose. Ask yourself, “What will I remember about this place where I met her?” Let’s say you think you will remember the buffet table. You then connect a big red rose to it. When you think of the place, you will think of her name, too.


4. Continuous Use


If you concentrate, get the name, make it meaningful, and connect it to the person, you will remember it for the short term. To make the name stick in your long-term memory, however, you have to continue using it.


Talk about their name. If it is a foreign name ask the person what it means. How do they spell it? 


Also, use their name in conversation. The more you talk about the name the less you will rely on working memory and the more you will begin to store it.


Ask yourself, “What is that person’s name again?” Get the answer and then ask yourself, “Does that feel right?” Try to strengthen the association during the course of the day or evening.


Review the name. Create a names folder in your diary, on your computer, or on your cell phone of people that you would like to remember; include the name of the place where you met the person. Invite people you want to remember to one of your social networking sites, so that you can see their names. Review them often to keep them in your long-term memory. Look at the list every now and again and you will have a massive name memory filing system. You will never be caught off guard for a name again.


You can use these methods to remember hundreds of people at one meeting. They are all designed to improve your focus of attention, because when you remember others, they make a point of remembering you.















Chapter 11
Remembering Numbers


Group a list of letters together and you have a word that represents something—an image, an emotion, a person. Throw a few numbers together and you have, well, you have another number.
~Dominic O’Brien


Numbers have become an important 
part of our lives, yet no one has shown us how to remember them. 


You can choose to outsource your brain and use external memory devices to remember numbers. But if you can recall facts and figures without referring to your “external brain” or notes, then it builds trust and certainty, especially in business. It also builds mental strength and confidence in your memory. It’s like working out at the gym for your brain.


When listening to a series of digits, the average person will only remember about seven digits forward and only four to five backward. 


If you have a trained memory, however, there are no limits to what you can recall. I can remember a 50-digit random number in less than 20 seconds and 100 digits in 45 seconds. I have taken my number memory far beyond average, and you can too.


Any person can produce these results if they know the strategy. If you practice the methods and take pride in improving your memory, you can also develop these “superhuman” powers.


Many people repeat numbers over and over again, trying to hold on to the number for dear life. They do more of what they have always done to try to improve their recall. The problem is that continuing with a bad habit just makes it worse. You need a new method. 


We could use the numb
er shape method to hold on to smaller numbers, but the method I am about to show you has many more possibilities and applications.


Which is easier to remember?


American presidential candidates


or


34729401215721110


Obviously “American presidential candidates” is easier. As soon as you say it you memorize it. It has meaning and makes a visual image in your mind. The number string has no meaning, so it is not very memorable. To remember numbers you need to give them more meaning.


The systems that memory masters use for numbers vary, but most use a system that was developed in the seventeenth century by Stanislaus Mink von Wennshein. This method twists the numbers into shapes so that they form letters, then turns the letters into words. That may seem like a lot of work, but once you know your code it will make the process of remembering numbers a breeze; the code almost memorizes itself. Stick with it and open your mind to a whole new language. It is also a great way to exercise your verbal and numerical intelligence at the same time.


Let’s get started with learning the number code. Just go with this process—it will all come together in a moment. Let’s begin with the vowels 
a, e, i, o
, and 
u
. These letters have no number value. They act as fillers or blanks. The letters 
w
, 
h
, and 
y
 are also fillers or blanks. They also have no value. Just remember that for now.


Now, see the numbers in the following letters:


Zero
 is the 
s, z
, 
or soft
 
c
 (as in “dice”) sound. It sounds like the hissing of a wheel (which looks like a zero):












One represents the 
t
 
or
 
d
 sound:












Two
 is 
the
 
n
 sound:












Three
 is
 the
 
m
 sound:












What number would the word “TOMATOES” be?


T: 1
, O: no value, 
M: 3
, A: no value, 
T: 1, 
O: no value, E: no value, and 
S: 0
. The number would be 
1310
.


What word could you make for 
321
?


3: M
, 
2: N
 and 
1: D
 or 
T
: MNT or MND. If we add the vowel 
i
 we have the word 
M
I
NT
; if we replace the 
t
 with a 
d
 and add the vowel 
e
 we have 
M
E
ND. 
You could also change the vowel to 
a
 and add a 
y
 to make the name 
M
A
ND
Y.


It’s like learning a new number language.


Four
 is the 
r
 sound:












Five
 is the 
l
 sound: 












Six
 is the 
j, sh
, soft 
ch
, or
 soft 
g
 sound:












What word can you make with 
654
?


J
AI
L
E
R
.


Seven
 is the 
k
 and 
hard 
c
 sound:












Eight
 is the
 f 
or 
v
 sound:












Nine
 is 
b
 or 
p
, which look like the mirror and upside-down image of nine:












If I say 
C
A
V
E, what is the number?


78
.


What word can you make with the number 
98
?


B
EE
F
.


Now you can see that the number


3472 9401215 721110 is as easy as remembering


A
M
E
R
I
C
A
N
 
PR
E
S
I
D
E
NT
IA
L
 
C
A
ND
I
D
A
T
E
S


Do you now see how you can use this system to remember any number?


You may say, “But now I have to remember a number and a word.” 


No, it is like learning how to read. In the beginning you have to work hard to encode the information, but then it becomes easy. We remember concrete information, so you are not remembering more; you are just making the information more memorable.


If you think of the number 007, for example, you instantly think of James Bond. You can create the same experience with any number that you want to remember. It will take a bit of time to master, but once you have it you will have it forever.


I will now give you a list of words for each number from 1 to 100.


This method is also great because you don’t have to worry about spelling—it works on sounds.




















S
au
c
e














S
o
d
a














S
u
n














S
wi
m














S
i
r














S
ea
l














S
as
h














S
oc
k 
(one 
k
 sound)














S
a
f
e














S
oa
p














T
ie














N
oah














M
a














R
ay














L
aw














J
aw














K
ey














F
oe, U
F
O














B
ee














T
oe
s














D
a
d














T
a
n














D
a
m














D
ee
r














T
ai
l














D
i
sh














D
uc
k 
(one 
k
 sound)














D
o
v
e














T
a
p
e














N
o
s
e














N
e
t














N
u
n














G
n
o
m
e 
(silent 
g
)














N
e
r
o














N
ai
l














N
o
sh














N
ec
k 
(one 
k
 sound)














N
a
v
y














N
a
p














M
ou
s
e














M
a
t














M
oo
n














M
e
m
o














M
owe
r














M
ai
l














M
a
sh














M
i
k
e














M
a
f
ia














M
a
p














R
o
s
e














R
a
t














R
ai
n














R
a
m














R
owe
r














R
ee
l














R
a
sh














R
oc
k 
(one 
k
 sound)














R
oo
f














R
o
b
e














L
O
s
e














L
a
d
y














L
io
n














L
i
m
o














L
EE
R














L
i
l
y














L
ea
ch














L
oc
k
 
(one 
k
 sound)














L
ea
f














L
i
p














Ch
ee
s
e














J
e
t














Ch
ai
n














J
a
m














Ch
ai
r














J
ai
l














Ch
a-
Ch
a














Sh
a
k
e














Ch
ie
f














J
ee
p














C
a
s
e














C
a
t














C
a
n














C
o
m
B 
(silent 
b
)














C
a
r














C
oa
l














C
a
sh














C
o
k
e














C
a
v
e














C
a
b














F
a
c
e














F
a
t














F
a
n














F
oa
m














F
i
re














F
oi
l














F
i
sh














F
a
k
e














Woo
f
-woo
f














FB
I














B
u
s














B
a
t














B
u
n














B
u
m














B
ea
r














B
ow
l














B
ea
ch














B
ac
k 
(one 
k
 sound)














B
ee
f














B
a
b
y














D
ai
s
ie
s
















If you don’t like some of the above words, you can make up your own.


Not only can you use this method to remember numbers, but it can also be used as a very effective giant peg memory system.


To make this more digestible, try memorizing just 10 pegs a day. Attach images to the words in the list above, or make up your own words and attach images to those. 


There are many advantages to knowing this method. You can use it to learn 100 bits of information easily and in order. Once you have learned these values, you can remember numbers without limit. When each number represents an image, you can hold it in your mind and place it in a system such as the car, body, or journey systems to remember as many numbers as you choose.


I have used this method to remember athletic and sports statistics, stock prices, and other key information relating to numbers. This method also works well to remember important dates in history. I enjoy remembering dates because they link historical events to a time line. Once this information is in your memory it is easy to correlate to other events. With this method, I am able to remember up to 100 dates in five minutes. 


When I learn most dates I use only the last three digits, because most of the dates we need to remember occurred in the last thousand years. Here are some examples.


1926: Television was first demonstrated to the public.


Take 926 and use the code to make the word 
P
U
NCH
. Now using our memory principles, we can imagine that you punch the television and it starts to work.


1969: People land on the moon.


Imagine a 
B
I
SH
O
P
 (969) on the moon. See the bishop walking on the moon and playing with moon dust.


1901: The first Nobel Prize was awarded.


We can imagine that the first prize was made of 
P
A
ST
A (901).


1942: The first computer was developed.


We can imagine a computer that looks like a 
B
A
RN 
(942).


1801: The first submarine was built.


See the submarine being built very 
F
A
ST
 (801).


1784: The first newspaper was published.


See 
C
A
V
IA
R
 (784) all over the newspaper.


This method takes practice. You have to really work with it to make it work for you, but when you do, there will be no limits to your number memory.















Chapter 12
Art in Memory


Interest level is measured by how much you remember.
~Philip A. Bossert


In this chapter, I want 
to show you the power of turning information into art. It is a very 
simple method, and will help you remember information forever. Turning information into art grabs your attention; your mind won’t let go of it. All of the systems taught in this book can be enhanced by turning the information not only into mental images, but also physical media, like a drawing, painting, mind
 map, or simple doodle.


As I said before, every word is a picture drawn with letters. Every word can conjure up an image that can be drawn, and pictures register very quickly in the brain. If an image can be presented in three dimensions, it adds to the visual impact because that is the way things appear in the real world. You can achieve this by using Google images, by getting an illustrator to make drawings for you, by cutting out pictures from magazines, or by making doodles. Any art can help you remember more. You can sculpt, paint, or even act out your information. The whole process is about creative remembering and becoming more associated and personally involved with the information. And when you use more of your creativity you use more of your unlimited memory.


Use the power of Google images to create memory diagrams. Place all the images in a Word or PowerPoint document and view it often, so that when you look at the picture it creates instant learning. 


Let me give you two examples using the pictures on the next page, which have been placed together to make a linked picture. 


Each picture respresents one of the 12 cranial nerves, which emerge directly from the brain. Look at the pictures and see how much registers in your mind. Link the pictures in a story and it will create an even stronger connection. The more deeply you think about any information, the more you will remember it.












The link starts with a picture of an
 old factory
 (sounds like 
olfactory
). The second picture is a man picking
 up 
a 
tick
 mark to remind you of 
optic. 
The third picture is a motor with a knife in it; it is 
a killer motor
 (sounds like 
oculomotor
). The fourth picture is a 
truck
 with “
clear
” written on it, which represents 
trochlear
. The 
three gems
 are a reminder for 
trigeminal. Two cents
 for 
abducens
. A lady having a 
facial
 is for 
facial.
 
Vest
 being worn by a 
cock
 for 
vestibulocochlear.
 The 
pharaoh
 wears lip 
gloss 
for 
glossopharyngeal. 
The Las 
Vegas
 sign represents the 
vagus
 nerve. The earrings are an 
accessory
, and finally the
 hippo
 with lip 
gloss
 is for 
hypoglossal
. You can always add more to the picture if the image doesn’t immediately trigger the whole word for you.


These pictures are all short mental reminders or triggers to help you recall the main content. By looking, linking, and locking in the image you will make the memory link stronger and easier to recall. Try it!


The next example will help you remember the first 10 elements of the periodic table:












First, we have a fire hydrant (
hydrogen
) with helium-filled balloons (
helium
) tied to the top of the hydrant. The helium balloons are touching the light bulb (
lithium
). The light bulb is burning the different berries (
beryllium
). The berries are being eaten by a smelly wild boar (
boron
). A car with a bun attached to it (
carbon
) crashes into the boar. Behind the car-bun is a knight (
nitrogen
), and out of his armor pops a scuba-diving oxygen tank (
oxygen
). The oxygen tank is being used by a woman with the flu (
fluorine
). There is a massive neon sign (
neon
) that blinks on and off behind the spluttering and sneezing “flu woman.”


Look at the picture again, make the links, and it will be installed in your memory.


If you wanted to remember the entire periodic table, you could create a few pictures and it would be simple to achieve.


You can also use memory diagrams to help children remember spelling. Here are a few examples:












Business












Two snakes
 
(s’s) in the 
dessert
.


Here is a great way to clear up confusion between homophones:












He has a p
ear
 in his 
ear
.












The p
air
 of shoes is flying through the 
air
.


Any information can be represented as a drawing, painting, photograph, or sculpture. Turn key information that you need for your life into a picture so that you will be able to see it easily in your mind’s eye. Use art to remember—and have fun!


Mind Mapping


Your memory system operates so quickly and effortlessly  that you seldom notice it working.
~Daniel T. Willingham


One of the best ways to see your mind and memory at work is through Mind Mapping. When you adopt this method, it will change the way you think. It is a powerful way to organize information, think on paper, and get more out of your head.


Tony Buzan, who invented and trademarked Mind Maps, created this amazing tool in the early 1970s. Since then it has evolved into one of the world’s most effective learning and thinking methods.


Tony calls Mind Mapping a “Swiss Army Knife for the brain.” It is not only a method for expanding your memory, but a way to improve your thinking skills. Mind Mapping can be used for memorizing, learning, presenting, communicating, organizing, planning, negotiating, and all types of thinking.


A Mind Map is a multisensory way to transfer your thoughts to paper. It is incredibly easy to do. At first it may take a bit of practice, but then your brain will remember how to have fun, and your life and learning will never be the same again. Mind Maps are a wonderful way to structure information so that you can see both the big picture and the details. Linear notes can never provide the flexibility that you have with Mind Maps.


To be a successful Mind Mapper, all you need is the following:




Your brain


A blank piece of paper (the bigger the better) in landscape orientation


Lots of colored pens and pencils




The best way to explain a Mind Map is to create one. The Mind Map that I will create here is about all the systems that I have shared with you in this book.


Step 1: 
Every Mind Map starts in the center of a blank page with an image that represents the subject of the entire Mind Map. I will call this one “systems.” As we now know, images are memorable and stimulate more creativity.












Step 2: 
Once you have your central image, start branching out with your main headings. In this Mind Map, the main branches are all the memory systems we have covered. Each main branch will have its own color; this helps distinguish between different content.












Step 3:
 Once you have your main branches, then you can connect second- and third-level branches to give more detail to each main branch. You can add more branches to help clarify ideas or give more detail. Remember to use only one word per branch—this helps your associating mind to bloom freely—and to add lots of images. You can always expand your Mind Map because your associating mind can always find another memory.












Mind Maps are entertaining; they are fun and make use of your creative brain. If you stick with them, you will take your mind to a new level; you will improve your creativity, elevate your planning power, develop more of your brain, and increase your powers of memory and observation. You can use Mind Maps for a whole range of learning; they can be used very effectively to summarize large amounts of information, and to get the gist of what is being communicated.


Here is a Mind Map that I made of Stephen Covey’s 
The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People
.












Notice that each main branch shows a concept that we used in our car list. This Mind Map summarizes the key content from the whole book.


I created this Mind Map with iMindMap software. There are many Mind Mapping computer programs out there, but nothing I’ve seen comes close to the flexibility and usability of iMindMap. Play with it; you will be surprised at how much you can achieve with this one thinking tool.















Chapter 13
Using the Methods


Success is neither magical nor mysterious.
Success is a natural consequence of consistently applying basic fundamentals.
~Jim Rohn


Now that you know the 
fundamentals of the memory methods used by the masters, you can successfully remember any information you want. Being creative with information helps increase your involvement with the content, makes it part of your reality, and improves your memory. In this chapter I want to show you how you can adapt the methods to remember almost anything.


I will give you short guidelines on how to remember information word for word, recall presentations, get rid of your absentmindedness, memorize playing cards, and remember anything that you choose to study.


1. Remembering Written Information 
Word for Word


Memory ... is the diary that  we all carry about with us.
~Oscar Wilde


First I want to share the method that I use to remember information word for word. If you work with this method you will be able to remember any written information with ease. You can use it to remember quotes, poems, definitions, or verses from religious text.


Remembering information verbatim can help you in presentations, negotiations, or meetings. You can use it to hold on to information so you can call upon it when you need a bit of inspiration. It is also helpful in exams to remember definitions of key concepts.


Remembering and reciting poems is also a great way to train your mind and improve your presentation ability. And many religious texts refer to the importance of holding verses in your heart, so that you can live the lessons being taught.


In this section we will be using a quotation from an essay called “Success,” first published in 1905. The first element of the memory method is to find the key words that will help you remember the rest of the text. Have a look at the key words that I picked out:


To 
laugh often
 and much; to win the respect of 
intelligent people
 and the 
affection of children
; to earn the 
appreciation of honest critics 
and endure the 
betrayal of false friends
; to appreciate 
beauty
, to find the 
best in others
; to 
leave the world
 a bit better, whether by a 
healthy child
, a 
garden patch
 or a redeemed 
social condition
; to know even one life has 
breathed easier
 because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.


Once you have found your keywords, the next step is to create images out of them and place them in one of the systems that you have learned in this book. 
Remember that your imagination is like the pen and the system is the paper
. You can use a journey, your body, a car, or anything that is already in your long-term memory. You can even link all the concepts together as you did with the presidents. 


I’ll get you started: Let’s use a tree to remember the key concepts. Why a tree? Because it represents growth for me, and it is in my long-term memory.


Imagine that the roots are 
laughing 
and
 intelligent people
 are sitting at the base of the tree (picture Einstein and Steve Jobs). Imagine 
children
 hugging the trunk of the tree (
affection of children
), and on the branches you can imagine 
a nest
 (“
honest
”) full of 
critics
. Notice that we have connected the first few key words to the system. With a bit of repetition you will have it all in place.


You can continue to connect the rest of the information to the tree’s leaves, its fruit, or the park where it’s planted. Once you have placed the key concepts, then you need to read through the material a few times. The key words will make the text “stickier” and your knowledge of English will help you to remember the syntax. Make the material come to life and you will remember more!


My friend, the late great Creighton Carvello, memorized Ernest Hemingway’s novel 
The Old Man and the Sea
 and each word’s numerical position. You might have asked him the sixth word on line 15 on page 8, for example, and he could name it. He did not use rote learning; he used a method similar to the one I have just shown you.


As with anything, it takes practice to be able to remember text with ease. When you master this, you will be able to remember word for word any information that you need for your business or your life. Actors have successfully used this method to remember their lines. When you really know the information, you can feel it and act it out more comfortably as well.


2. Presenting from Memory


The human brain is a wonderful organ.
It starts working as soon as you are born 
and doesn’t stop until you get up to deliver a speech.
~George Jessel


Do you enjoy watching a presentation where the presenter hides behind a piece of paper or a screen and reads information to you? No, you want to see a human being who makes eye contact and communicates freely.


The purpose of any presentation is to get an audience to understand, believe, and act on what you say. If you as a presenter can’t remember your content, how is your audience supposed to? If they can’t remember it, they won’t believe or act on it.


Many people are afraid of public speaking. I believe that has a lot to do with the fear of forgetting information. Many people say, “I might hit a blank.” If you work with the methods in this book you will never “blank out” again.


I have now been giving professional presentations for over 20 years. The last thing on my mind during these appearances is the fear of forgetting information. When I present, I use the memory strategies and the information is always there waiting for me to deliver it. I can also clearly remember jokes, slides, research, quotes, and all my prepared content. I can loop back for any questions asked and be certain in my delivery. 


When you really remember the information, it builds confidence, and you will look like you know what you are talking about. 
Memory power is presentation power.


You can eliminate the fear of forgetting by using memory methods like the journey, body, car, peg list, drawing your own pictures, or making Mind Maps. Take charge and control of your content, because without notes you will look more professional in your delivery. When you present using the memory methods it is as if you are reading from a teleprompter. Although you do not learn the information word-for-word with rote memorization, you clearly remember the structure.


If you don’t move an audience, you have not managed your content correctly. If you have a clear structure installed in your head, it will be easier to move your audience, you will look more confident, and your presentation will be much more powerful.


Great presenters know that audiences tend to remember:


F
—First things	
L
—Last things	
O
—Outstanding information	
O
—Own links	
R
—Repeated information


Therefore, they make their introductions and conclusions powerful and outstanding. They open with memorable demonstrations, questions, facts, quotations, or meaningful stories. They also continually link information to the audience, make it more outstanding, and repeat the main points. 


If you design your presentation with the FLOOR principle in mind, your audience will remember more—and your presentation will be more enjoyable.


3. Absent Minds


Is the object lost or are you lost?
~Anonymous


Perhaps you’ve had this experience: You are sitting in your room and you think, “I’m going to make chicken for dinner.” You then walk to the kitchen and when you get there you think, “What am I doing here?” You may even open the refrigerator door, thinking that will help you remember what you had been planning to do. Or have you ever parked your car but can’t find it when you get back? Have you ever wondered if you have already taken your vitamins or other medication? And don’t you just hate it when you put your car keys down and you can’t find them when you need them?


If any of this has ever happened to you, then you are normal. Yes, normal! These things happen because familiarity breeds forgetfulness. We often perform our routines in an “autopilot” state and don’t attend to what we are doing. 


The good news is that 95 percent of the time you are not absentminded. You remember where you put your keys, you find your car, and you don’t put your pants in the fridge. Yet we beat ourselves up for the mistakes we make 5 percent of the time. If you focus on your absentminded moments you will create more absentmindedness. 
Start to catch your memory doing things right and you will start to see improvements.


It’s estimated that people squander 40 days annually trying to remember things they’ve forgotten. We’re becoming increasingly absentminded as we struggle to cope with constant streams of information from cell phones, the Internet, radio, and television. With all our technology and systems we should be more at peace, but we seem busier and more stressed than ever. As a result, we regularly misplace items or forget people’s names. 


We live in an activity illusion and keep our minds full of “busy-ness”—no wonder we are absentminded. But making excuses doesn’t solve anything.


So what is the solution? When you put items down, like your car keys, bring yourself back to the present moment. Ask yourself questions like, 
When am I going to use this next?
 or say to yourself,
 I am putting the keys on the table. 
Or you could imagine that your keys are blowing up the table. Try something different to bring yourself back to the moment. Most things in life can be solved with more responsibility, imagination, and awareness.


In Chapter 3, I talked about being “all there.” When you start to single-task instead of trying to do a hundred things at once, then you will start to be more focused. 


Take action today! Clear the clutter. Get organized. Think on paper. Bruce Sterling said, “Chaos is the sexiest excuse for laziness ever invented.” Creating systems and putting your items in the same place every day will save you massive amounts of time.


Decide today to bring yourself back to the power of now and pay more attention to the moment.


4. Remembering Playing Card
s


Without a method, the average person will only be able to memorize about half a pack of cards in 30 minutes, if they’re lucky. The average person doesn’t have a way of trapping thoughts, so they’re never really certain of what they know. With the method that I am about to teach you, you will be able to remember a shuffled deck in a few minutes. With the same method, I have been able to remember an entire pack in 45 seconds; with a bit of practice you will be able to do the same.


Remembering cards has many mental benefits. It is a great way to train your memory, it can help you in card games like blackjack and bridge, plus it has the added bonus of being a great demonstration of your memory power.


Knowing what you have already learned in this book, you now know that to remember something well you need to bring it to life. So how do you bring cards to life? 


First, you must create a picture for each card. Each card must have its own identity, so that you can distinguish it from the others. You can associate each card with a person you know or you can make all the diamond cards celebrities, all the heart cards your family, spade cards people you work with, and the club cards your friends. That would be one way to organize it.


The system I use is based on the number code from Chapter 11. In this method, however, the name of each card will begin with the first letter of the suit. Here’s an example: The name for the 3 of diamonds will begin with D for diamonds, followed by M for 3. Add a vowel (A) and you have DAM. 


So all diamond cards will start with a D, all hearts will start with H, etc. Then add the converted number to the end of the card, plus vowels and fillers to make a word.


Here are all the images for all the suits:


Diamonds


A—Da
t
e (ace is one)


2—Da
n


3—Da
m


4—Doo
r


5—Dea
l


6—Di
sh


7—Duc
k


8—Do
v
e


9—Dee
p


10—Di
c
e (10 will be zero, 
s
 sound)


J—Diamond (jacks are the image of the suite)


Q—Dean (queens use a rhyming word)


K—Ding (kings we use a word with ‘ing’ in it)


Hearts


A—Ha
t


2—He
n


3—Ha
m


4—Hai
r


5—Hai
l


6—Ha
sh


7—Hac
k


8—Hoo
f


9—Hoo
p


10—Hou
s
e


J—Heart


Q—Halloween


K—Hinge


Spades


A—Si
t


2—Su
n


3—Sa
m


4—Si
r


5—Sea
l


6—Sa
sh


7—Sac
k


8—Sa
f
e


9—Soa
p


10—Sea
s


J—Spade


Q—Steam


K—Sing


Clubs


A—Ca
t


2—Ca
n


3—Ca
m
o (camouflage)


4—Ca
r


5—Coa
l


6—Ca
sh


7—Ca
k
e


8—Ca
f
e


9—Ca
p


10—Ca
s
e


J—Club


Q—Cream


K—King


Let’s practice: Imagine a 
king
 bashing down the 
door
 and entering your 
house
. He finds some 
ham
 and 
duck
 to eat in your fridge. With that silly story you remembered five cards—king of clubs, 4 of diamonds, 10 of hearts, 3 of hearts, and 7 of diamonds. Easy, isn’t it?


Once you have created images for each of the cards, you will have to get to know them. It will take practice to automatically turn each card into an image, but with time it will become second nature.


To remember the whole shuffled pack you then create a journey of 52 places and store each character along the route, or you can link the cards together. These methods are not tricks; you are simply using the memory fundamentals and therefore maximizing more of your memory potential.


This is like a gym for your memory: The more you work with it, the more your overall memory will improve. It is a way to practice your memory skills. I know many people are not going to put in the effort to remember cards, but at least now you know how. This is just another example of how these methods can be applied to solve any memory problem.


5. Studying Anything


Learning new information isn’t helpful 
unless it can be recalled later.
Anything that increases one’s memory power
increases access to everything learned.
~Richard Restak, MD


As I’ve said before, there is no learning without memory. The more you can enhance your memory the better you will be able to learn. In every course there is some theory that has to be remembered. The quicker you can get the theory down the more time you can spend on practicing the information. Many first- and second-year university subjects are memory-based. If you have a strong memory system in place, you will succeed in anything that you choose to study.


There are a few things you should consider to enhance your performance in your area of study. First, never learn just to pass an exam. What is the purpose of doing well in an exam and not knowing what you have learned two weeks later? Learning is not a destination; it is a continuous process.


All the “A” students that I have ever interviewed prepare and plan their learning. They do little bits over time.  They don’t stress before an exam, because the hard work is already done. All the “F” students overdose on energy drinks the night before and stress their way through the information hoping it will stick for the exam. So break your learning down and master the material over time.


Before you study anything, make sure you have a strong PIC (purpose, interest, and curiosity) in mind. Review Chapter 3 to get more details on the PIC principle. Your vision will determine how much energy you will have for your learning and how hard you will be willing to work.


When studying, it is also important to take breaks, as your mind can remain focused for only so long before you become unproductive and tense. When you return from a break you will feel refreshed and do more work in less time. Take a break every 35 to 40 minutes; take a walk and get away from whatever you’re working on and give your mind a rest.


Get an overview and analyze the material that you have to cover. Mark out all the information that you need to remember. In any subject, the same concepts will keep coming up, so make images for these key concepts and create an image “vocabulary” so that you don’t have to keep finding new images. Then create a memory system that will work for each section and store the information. Record your systems and go through them a few times to make sure you have all the content in your head. I have had students that have used one shopping mall to remember their entire syllabus. If you use the methods shared in this book, you will never again have the experience of not being able to get information into your head.


No matter what information you need to learn, these methods can be adapted so that you can find a solution and make the information “sticky.” I have helped thousands of people learn all kinds of material for school and university. I have helped medical students, law students, pilots, policeman, nurses, medical reps, miners, ornithologists, marketers, and engineers. 


Every area of study will benefit from these methods. They have no limits other than the excuses and judgments that you may place on them with your whining mind. 


Some people say, “I’m not creative and I don’t make pictures.”


When I hear people say that, all I hear is, “I’m too lazy to put in the effort.” If you choose to believe in limits you will live a limited life. Would you rather put in the effort to learn and master the world’s most effective memory strategies, or keep struggling with outdated methods of studying and trying to remember information ineffectively?















Chapter 14
Self-discipline


We all love to win 

  but how many people love to train?
~Mark Spitz


There has never ever been 
an undisciplined world champion. The same is true for success in any field. It sometimes takes years of training to develop abilities in the area in which we want to achieve success, and our rewards are always directly proportional to our efforts. People say, “That person has such talent,” but they never look down the road to see how many hours have been spent training. 


If you want to master the skills that you have learned in this book, or if you want to master anything, you need self-discipline. 


Self-discipline is not self-deprivation. It is about raising your standards, going for and being more.


Many people think that things will magically appear in their lives. People want beautiful healthy teeth, for example, but they don’t have the self-discipline to floss them. Is flossing expensive? Does it take a lot of time? Is it difficult to do? No. How can they expect to change any area of their lives if they can’t even bring themselves to do that? So why don’t people floss?


I once read an article on CNN.com that stated, “Up to 59 percent of glaucoma patients regularly skip their eye drops, even though untreated glaucoma can lead to blindness.” If you have glaucoma you are going to lose your eyesight if you don’t use your drops! Why don’t people do it?


People don’t do it because they think that the future will be a better place than the present without doing anything to make it better.


What do you want? What are you doing daily to get what you want? If your daily actions are not moving you in the direction of what you want, then you will never get what you want. Common sense, isn’t it?


It is not that your goals are physically impossible; it is more likely that you lack the self-discipline to stick to them. There are four keys to creating more self-discipline in your life. The first one is:


1. Create a Vision


Your inner vision and your energy are connected. If you wake up in the morning and focus on all the bad things that could possibly happen, your energy level will be low. If you wake up and imagine exciting possibilities and focus on all the great things that you get to do, your energy level will lift. Where your attention goes, your energy flows.


David Campbell said, “Discipline is remembering what you want.” The more reasons you have to do something, the better your inner movie will be, and the more energy you will create to do it. 


If your excuses are high and your reasons are low you will have no discipline to start. If your reasons are high and your excuses are low, you will have lots of motives, and motive in action creates motivation. Always ask yourself, “How badly do I want it?” If you really, really want it, you will create a strong vision and you will have the self-discipline to do it.


2. Make a Decision


Change happens only when you make a true decision to change. A true decision means you will not allow for any other possibility. Make a commitment to yourself that this is the way you are going to live your life.


Of course, for anything to happen in your life you have to schedule it. Decide to make it part of your routine.


3. Don’t Listen to Your Feelings


Elbert Hubbard said, “Self-discipline is the ability to make yourself do what you should do, when you should do it, whether you feel like it or not.” When people say things like “I will do this tomorrow,” a loop closes in their mind and they are happy to continue without doing it—because they say they will do it tomorrow. The problem is that when tomorrow comes, the same loop repeats itself. In the same way, if you say, “I just don’t feel like it,” a loop closes because you have tricked yourself into thinking that you will do it when you do feel like it. 


These pictures and voices, which we control, create our feelings. If you want emotional mastery, learn to take control of these pictures, movies, and voices that run your mind.


Some people say, “I have to listen to my inner voice because it guides my intuition.” 


You can listen to your intuition or feelings when you are deciding to pass a truck on a busy road, making a massive decision, or gauging whether you should step into an elevator with a freaky-looking guy. But when you follow a discipline, these feelings only get in the way. 


When it comes time to floss your teeth, you don’t have to consult your intuition, you just do it. When you have to exercise, you don’t have to listen to your feelings, you just do it. William James said, “The more we struggle and debate, the more we reconsider and delay, the less likely we are to act.”


Schedule a time in the day for memory training and practice—whether you feel like it or not.


4. Daily Action


If you want to develop a habit, the only way to do it is by practicing daily. Only by consistently practicing your discipline can you turn it into a skill. 


Most of the research that I have read says it takes 21 days to develop a new habit. In my experience it takes a lot longer. Some people think that once the 21 days are up the brain will take over. Then after 21 days they give up and wait for their brain to do the rest. 


Self-discipline requires you to make decisions daily. Self-discipline requires you to start fresh every day. Every day is a new day. If you need incentive, tell yourself you don’t have to practice this skill for the rest of your life—just for today.


I believe that life does not reward idleness. If you put your arm in a sling for a week you would start to lose the use of many of your major muscles. Your brain is made of flesh and blood like the rest of your body, so if you use it, it will improve. If you don’t, your mind will erode. 
The only way you get to be good at anything is through self-discipline. Remember: Life only rewards action!















Chapter 15
Review to Renew


You know as well as I do that it is entirely wrong to assume that any subject matter which we once learned and mastered will remain our mental property forever.
~Bruno Furst


It has been estimated that 
two years after leaving school, the average person remembers only three weeks’ worth of lessons. 


Think about it in your own life: Do you still remember all those theorems? The person that passes a test today would never pass that same test four weeks later. Final exams are really final!


An early twentieth-century study found that the average person who learns textbook material (without memory methods) remembers only the following:


   After 1 day: 54%	
   After 7 days: 35%	
   After 14 days: 21%	
   After 21 days: 19%	
   After 28 days: 18%


If the average student remembers only 18 percent of their work after a 28-day holiday, the next lecturer or trainer only has 18 percent of the old knowledge on which to build new knowledge. This means the average company or student loses 82 percent of the information (or 82 cents out of every training dollar) after 28 days. Any training is a waste of time if there is not a process of review!


People who use the memory methods and systems often feel that they could never forget the information they learned using them. But while the methods help to store memories quickly for a medium term, to make sure that the information remains in your mind, you need to review and recite it.


The reason we review is to make the information more solid in our minds. The only way we can build on a memory is if we can remember it. Your memory is like a savings account: The more resources you put in, the more they grow. Review helps you to create more long-term memories.


Repetition or rote learning on its own (without the methods) is no fun; it takes a long time and can often result in an aversion to learning. Memorizing should be a pleasure; it should be like a game.


Reviewing when using the memory methods doesn’t require a lot of time. It’s just a process of thinking about it, making sure that the pictures are strong and that you can see them clearly. Then recite any information that you want to stick in your mind.


I find that if you review your information in a specified time frame you increase recall. If you repeat it 10 minutes after learning the information, it will remain in your memory for at least an hour. In addition, the first review should be done backward. 


Reviewing images backward helps you remember them more effectively. If you learn concepts in reverse you create a new impression in your mind that makes information more outstanding and the memory much stronger. 


Once you have done this, you can review at longer and longer intervals: 
review after an hour, then a day, 3 days, 7 days, 14 days, 21 days, 28 days, 2 months, 3 months, and then it should be in your memory forever.
 


During the first 72-hour period, the knowledge transforms into a deeper, stronger memory. If you are using a route or journey system, after the first 72 hours you will be able to reuse the journey for new information. But if you have information that you want to keep forever, give it a specific route or system that’s not used for anything else, and review it often.


Review takes discipline, but it keeps information fresh in your mind. It keeps it alive. It keeps it awake so that you can connect more information to it. The more that you connect to that information, the stronger it becomes. Your mind is the only computer in the world with this characteristic: The more you put into it, the more it will hold.


The perfect way to learn is to make lots of firsts and lasts: take breaks, make your information outstanding, make your own links (using memory methods), and then review to keep it ready in your mind for new learning.


No matter how many times you memorize something, you will have to start from the beginning if you let yourself forget it. If you use it, however, you will strengthen the information and you will remember it.


Review helps you think more about what you are remembering. By thinking about it, you begin to really understand it, too. This is especially important when remembering names. Only if you review them will you remember them. Using the information often also acts as a review. 


Always use the power of review to put a lid on your learning and prevent it from escaping.


You have learned that the only way to improve  is to get rid of anything that prevents you from improving. So you got rid of the obstacles like excuses, limiting beliefs, and multitasking, and then you became willing to learn more. Then you learned how to improve through the SEE principle of imagination. You learned the different memory methods—the link story method, memory art, the body and car methods, the route or journey method, the peg systems, the number code, and methods for remembering names. These systems are limited only by your own imagination and level of self-discipline. Now you also know how to review.


Remember to 
review 
to
 renew
.















CHAPTER 16
Endings Are the Seeds
for Beginnings


If you’re hoping to harvest a life of great deeds,
remember you first have to plant some great seeds.
~Denis Waitley


You are the source of 
all your memories and 
remembering is a choice! 
There is no magic when it comes to memory improvement; there is only management.


Memory skills are an important tool in your self-improvement arsenal.
 I have given you many tools, but remember that 
batteries are not included. 
You must provide the energy to make it work. The information you have received will change your life for the better: Use it! Memory training will enable you to create more certainty with information. Certainty fosters confidence and will give you a glimpse of your amazing ability.


Brice Marden said, “The possibilities of thought training are infinite, its consequences eternal, and yet few take the pains to direct their thinking into channels that will do them good, but instead leave all to chance.”


Today you have two choices: You can leave it all to chance and do what you have always done—and get what you have always gotten. Or you can do different to become different. Take these tools, make them your own, practice hard, and unleash the power of your unlimited memory.


May you never forget what is worth remembering, 
nor ever remember what is best forgotten.
~Irish blessing















Part I
Concentrate




The best advice I ever came across 
on the subject of concentration is: 
Wherever you are, be there.
~Jim Rohn















Part II
Create and Connect


When you train your creativity,
you automatically train your memory.
When you train your memory,
you automatically train your creative thinking skills!
~Tony Buzan















Part III
Continuous Use


Habits begin as offhanded remarks, ideas, and images. 
And then, layer upon layer, through practice, 
they grow from cobwebs into cables that shackle 
or strengthen our lives.
~Denis Waitley















Bibliography




Buzan, T. 1995. 
Use Your Memory
. London: BBC books.


Buzan, T. 1995. 
Use Your Head
. London: BBC books.


Buzan, T. 2001. 
Head First
. London: Thorsons.


Baddeley, A, Eysenck, M.W, Anderson, M.C. 2009. 
Memory
. USA: Psychology Press.


Covey, S. 1989. 
The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People: Powerful Lessons in Personal Change
. Britain: Simon & Schuster Ltd.


Lorayne, H. 1992. 
Improve Exam Results In 30 days
. London: Thorsons.


Luria, A.R. 1998. 
The Mind of the Mnemonist
. London: Harvard University Press.


Maxwell, J.C. 2004. 
Today Matters: 12 Daily Practices to Guarantee Tomorrow’s Success
. USA: Time Warner Book Group.


Robbins, A. 1992. 
Awaken The Giant Within
. London. Simon & Schuster Ltd.


Worthen, J and Reed Hunt, R. 2011. 
Mnemonology: Mnemonics for the 21st Century
. USA: Psychology Press.


Medina, J. 2008. 
Brain Rules: 12 Principles for Surviving and Thriving at Work, Home, and School.
 USA: Pear Press.


Lorayne, H. 1957. 
How To Develop A Superpower Memory
.
New York: Frederick Fell.


Higbee, K. 2001. 
Your Memory : How It Works and How to Improve It
. Da Capo Press; 2nd edition


Price, I. 2011. 
The Activity Illusion
. Matador


Katie, B. 2008. 
Loving What Is: How Four Questions Can Change Your Life
. Ebury Digital


Hall, M. 2013. 
Movie Mind
. USA: L. Michael Hall


Demartini, J. 2008. The Riches within: your seven secret treasures. USA: Hay House, INC.


Gruneberg, M. 1987. 
Linkword Language System
 – Italian. 
UK: Corgi Books


Furst, B. 1949. 
Stop Forgetting
.USA: Greenberg.


Kandel, E.R. 2007. 
In Search of Memory: The Emergence of New Science of Mind
. USA: W.W.Norton & Company.


Drawings done by Jac Hamman.


Royalty-free images from 
www.pixabay.com
. Graphics created by Michelle Revolta.

















About the Author












For over 25 years, 
KEVIN 
HORSLEY
 has been analyzing the mind and memory and its capacity for brilliance. He is one of only a few people in the world to have received the title of 
International Grandmaster of Memory. 


He is a World Memory Championship medalist, and a two-time world record holder for the “Everest of Memory Tests.” Kevin is the author of four books, and the designer of a times table game with the Serious Games Institute at North-West University, Vaal Campus, South Africa.


Kevin is an international professional speaker, and assists organizations in improving their learning, motivation, creativity, and thinking.


Learn more about Kevin at 
www.supermemory.co.za
 















Connect with
Kevin Horsley


Get your FREE 
Boost your Unlimited Memory
 PDF: 
www.supermemory.co.za/free


To find out more information visit his website: 
www.supermemory.co.za


Instagram:
kevin_horsley


Quora:
www.quora.com/profile/Kevin-Horsley


YouTube:
HorsleyKJ




















